

===== PAGE 1 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83:681
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-023-11699-1
Regular Article - Experimental Physics
ATLAS ﬂavour-tagging algorithms for the LHC Run 2 pp collision
dataset
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
CERN, 1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland
Received: 30 November 2022 / Accepted: 27 January 2023 / Published online: 31 July 2023
© CERN for the beneﬁt of the ATLAS collaboration 2023
Abstract The ﬂavour-tagging algorithms developed by the
ATLAS Collaboration and used to analyse its dataset of√ s = 13 TeV pp collisions from Run 2 of the Large Hadron
Collider are presented. These new tagging algorithms are
based on recurrent and deep neural networks, and their per-
formance is evaluated in simulated collision events. These
developments yield considerable improvements over pre-
vious jet-ﬂavour identiﬁcation strategies. At the 77% b-jet
identiﬁcation efﬁciency operating point, light-jet (charm-jet)
rejection factors of 170 (5) are achieved in a sample of sim-
ulated Standard Model t ¯t events; similarly, at a c-jet identi-
ﬁcation efﬁciency of 30%, a light-jet (b-jet) rejection factor
of 70 (9) is obtained.
Contents
1 Introduction ..................... 1
2 The ATLAS detector ................. 2
3 Monte Carlo samples ................. 2
4 Key ingredients for ﬂavour-tagging ......... 9
5 Low-level b-taggers ................. 1 1
5.1 Algorithms based on impact parameters .... 1 1
5.2 Track-based recurrent neural network tagger .. 1 3
5.3 Secondary-vertex-tagging algorithm ...... 1 4
5.4 Topological multi-vertex ﬁnding algorithm ... 1 5
6 High-level ﬂavour-taggers, the DL1 series ...... 1 7
7 Flavour-tagging performance ............ 2 0
7.1 b-tagging performance ............. 2 0
7.2 Charm-tagging performance .......... 2 1
7.3 MC generator dependence ........... 2 1
7.4 Overtraining checks ............... 2 1
8 Conclusion ...................... 2 1
References ........................ 2 2
⋆ e-mail: atlas.publications@cern.ch
1 Introduction
The separation of jets containing b- and c-hadrons ( b-jets
and c-jets, respectively) against jets containing neither b-o r
c-hadrons (light-ﬂavour jets) is of major importance in many
areas of the physics programme of the ATLAS experiment [1]
at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) [2]. Flavour-tagging has
been decisive in observations of the Higgs boson decay into
bottom quarks [3] and of its production in association with a
top-quark pair [4], and plays a crucial role in a large number
of Standard Model (SM) precision measurements, studies of
Higgs boson properties, and searches for new phenomena.
The ATLAS Collaboration uses various algorithms to
identify b- and c-jets [5], referred to as ﬂavour-tagging algo-
rithms, when analysing data from pp collisions recorded
during Run 2 of the LHC (2015–2018) at √ s = 13 TeV.
These algorithms exploit the long lifetime, high mass and
high decay multiplicity of b- and c-hadrons as well as the
properties of heavy-quark fragmentation. Given a lifetime of
the order of 1.5 ps ( ⟨cτ⟩≈ 450 µm), energetic b-hadrons
have a signiﬁcant mean ﬂight length, ⟨l⟩= βγcτ, in the
detector before decaying, generally leading to at least one
vertex displaced by a few mm from the hard-scatter collision
point.
The strategy developed by the ATLAS Collaboration is
based on a two-stage approach. Low-level algorithms recon-
struct the characteristic features of the heavy-ﬂavour jets via
two complementary approaches: one that uses the properties
of individual charged-particle tracks (referred to as ‘tracks’)
associated with a hadronic jet, and a second which combines
the tracks to explicitly reconstruct displaced vertices. Then,
in order to maximise performance, the results of low-level
algorithms are combined in high-level algorithms consist-
ing of multivariate classiﬁers. The analysis of the data from
Run 2 of the LHC is marked by improvements and retun-
ing of the low-level algorithms [ 6], ﬁrst introduced during
Run 1, but also by the introduction of new low- and high-level
algorithms respectively based on recurrent and deep neural
networks. This yields considerable improvements over pre-
123

===== PAGE 2 =====
681 Page 2 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
vious work, which was based on boosted decision trees or
likelihood discriminants.
This paper is organised as follows. Section 2 introduces
the ATLAS detector. The simulated Monte Carlo events used
in this work are described in Sect. 3. Section 4 contains the
description of the objects reconstructed in the detector which
are key inputs to ﬂavour-tagging algorithms, while Sects. 5
and 6 describe the low- and high-level tagging algorithms
respectively. Finally, their performance, evaluated on simu-
lated event samples, is presented in Sect. 7.
2 The ATLAS detector
The ATLAS detector [1] at the LHC covers nearly the entire
solid angle around the collision point. It consists of an
inner tracking detector (ID) surrounded by a superconduct-
ing solenoid, electromagnetic and hadronic calorimeters and
a muon spectrometer incorporating three large superconduct-
ing toroid magnets.
The ID consists of a high-granularity silicon pixel detec-
tor which covers the vertex region and typically provides
four measurements per track. The innermost layer, known
as the insertable B-layer (IBL) [ 7], was added in 2014 and
provides high-resolution hits at small radius to improve the
tracking performance. For a ﬁxed b-jet efﬁciency, the incor-
poration of the IBL improves the light-ﬂavour jet rejection
of the b-tagging algorithms by up to a factor of four [ 8].
The silicon pixel detector is followed by a silicon microstrip
tracker that typically provides eight measurements from four
strip double layers. These silicon detectors are complemented
by a transition radiation tracker (TRT), which enables radi-
ally extended track reconstruction up to a pseudorapidity
1
of |η|= 2.0. The TRT also provides electron identiﬁcation
information based on the fraction of hits (typically 33 in the
barrel and up to an average of 38 in the endcaps) above a
higher energy-deposit threshold corresponding to transition
radiation. The ID is immersed in a 2 T axial magnetic ﬁeld
and provides charged-particle tracking in the pseudorapidity
range |η| < 2.5.
The calorimeter system covers the pseudorapidity range
|η| < 4.9. Within the region |η| < 3.2, electromag-
netic calorimetry is provided by barrel and endcap high-
granularity lead/liquid-argon (LAr) sampling calorimeters,
with an additional thin LAr presampler covering|η| < 1.8t o
1 ATLAS uses a right-handed coordinate system with its origin at the
nominal interaction point (IP) in the centre of the detector and the z-
axis along the beam pipe. The x-axis points from the IP to the centre of
the LHC ring, and the y-axis points upwards. Cylindrical coordinates
(r,φ) are used in the transverse plane, φ being the azimuthal angle
around the z-axis. The pseudorapidity is deﬁned in terms of the polar
angle θas η=− ln tan(θ/2). Angular distance is measured in units of
/Delta1R ≡
√
(/Delta1η)2 + (/Delta1φ)2.
correct for energy loss in material upstream of the calorime-
ters. Hadronic calorimetry is provided by a steel/scintillator-
tile calorimeter, segmented into three barrel structures within
|η| < 1.7, and two copper/LAr hadronic endcap calorime-
ters. The solid angle coverage is completed with forward cop-
per/LAr and tungsten/LAr calorimeter modules optimised for
electromagnetic and hadronic measurements, respectively.
The muon spectrometer comprises separate trigger and
high-precision tracking chambers measuring the deﬂection
of muons in a magnetic ﬁeld generated by the supercon-
ducting air-core toroids. The precision chamber system cov-
ers the region |η| < 2.7 with three layers of monitored
drift tubes, complemented by cathode-strip chambers in the
forward region. The muon trigger system covers the range
|η| < 2.4 with resistive-plate chambers in the barrel and
thin-gap chambers in the endcap regions.
A two-level trigger system [9] is used to select interesting
events. The ﬁrst level of the trigger is implemented in hard-
ware and uses a subset of detector information to reduce the
event rate to a design value of at most 100 kHz. It is followed
by a software-based trigger that reduces the event rate to a
maximum of around 1 kHz for ofﬂine storage.
An extensive software suite [10] is used in data simulation,
in the reconstruction and analysis of real and simulated data,
in detector operations, and in the trigger and data acquisition
systems of the experiment.
3 Monte Carlo samples
The optimisation of the ATLAS Run 2b-tagging algorithms
is performed with jets from a ‘hybrid’ sample composed
of a mixture of simulated SM t ¯t and high-mass Z
′ → q ¯q
events. The Z′ events do not correspond to a single resonance
but have a broad Z′ mass spectrum in order to optimise the
b-tagging performance at high jet momentum transverse to
the beam-line ( pT). The ﬁnal hybrid sample for training is
obtained by mixing all b-jets from the available t ¯t events, if
the corresponding b-hadron pT is below 250 GeV, with all
jets containing a b-hadron with pT > 250 GeV from the Z′
sample. A similar strategy, based on the jet pT, is applied
for c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets. No attempt is made to dis-
tinguish quark-initiated jets from gluon-initiated jets in these
samples.
The t ¯t simulation sample was produced using
Powheg Boxv2 [ 11–14], which yields matrix elements at
next-to-leading order (NLO) in the strong coupling con-
stant α
s for top-quark pair production. The ﬁrst-gluon-
emission cut-off scale parameter hdamp was set to 1 .5mt,
with mt = 172.5 GeV used for the top-quark mass.
Powheg Box was interfaced to Pythia 8.230 [ 15] with
the A14 set of tuned parameters [ 16] and NNPDF[3.0nnlo]
(NNPDF[2.3lo]) [17,18] parton distribution functions in the
123

===== PAGE 3 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 3 of 37 681
Fig. 1 The a transverse and b longitudinal signed impact parameter signiﬁcance of tracks for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in t ¯t events. The
ﬁrst (last) bin in the distribution does not account for underﬂow (overﬂow)
Fig. 2 The log-likelihood ratio for the a IP2D and b IP3D b-tagging
algorithms for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in t ¯t events. The log-
likelihood ratio shown here is computed as the ratio of the b-jet to
light-ﬂavour jet hypothesis probabilities. Jets with no tracks are not
included in the plot, but assigned a large negative value. The ﬁrst (last)
bin in the distribution does not account for underﬂow (overﬂow)
Fig. 3 Schematic drawing of
the RNNIP neural network
architecture. The S
d0 and Sz0
input variables correspond to the
lifetime-correlated signed
transverse and longitudinal
impact parameter signiﬁcances,
while p
frac
T and /Delta1R represent
the fraction of transverse
momentum carried by the track
relative to the jet and the angular
distance between the track and
the jet axis, respectively
123

===== PAGE 4 =====
681 Page 4 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Table 1 Input variables used by the SVKine and JFKine, DL1 and DL1r algorithms
Input Variable Description SVKine JFKine DL1 DL1r
Kinematics pT Jet pT ✓✓✓ ✓
η Jet |η| ✓✓✓ ✓
IP2D, IP3D log(Pb/Plight) Likelihood ratio of the b-jet to light-ﬂavour jet
hypotheses
✓✓
log(Pb/Pc) Likelihood ratio of the b-jet to c-jet hypotheses ✓✓
log(Pc/Plight) Likelihood ratio of the c-jet to light-ﬂavour jet
hypotheses
✓✓
RNNIP Pb b-jet probability ✓
Pc c-jet probability ✓
Plight light-ﬂavour jet probability ✓
SV1 m(SV) Invariant mass of tracks at the secondary vertex
assuming pion mass
✓✓ ✓
fE (SV) Jet energy fraction of the tracks associated with
the secondary vertex
✓✓ ✓
NTrkAtVtx(SV) Number of tracks used in the secondary vertex ✓✓ ✓
N2TrkVtx(SV) Number of two-track vertex candidates ✓✓ ✓
Lxy (SV) Transverse distance between the primary and
secondary vertices
✓✓ ✓
Lxyz (SV) Distance between the primary and secondary
vertices
✓✓ ✓
Sxyz (SV) Distance between the primary and secondary
vertices divided by its uncertainty
✓✓ ✓
/Delta1R( ⃗pjet, ⃗pvtx)(SV) /Delta1R between the jet axis and the direction of the
secondary vertex relative to the primary vertex
✓✓ ✓
JetFitter m(JF) Invariant mass of tracks from displaced vertices ✓✓ ✓
fE (JF) Jet energy fraction of the tracks associated with
the displaced vertices
✓✓ ✓
/Delta1R( ⃗pjet, ⃗pvtx)(JF) /Delta1R between the jet axis and the vectorial sum of
momenta of all tracks attached to displaced
vertices
✓✓ ✓
S
xyz (JF) Signiﬁcance of the average distance between PV
and displaced vertices
✓✓ ✓
NTrkAtVtx(JF) Number of tracks from multi-prong displaced
vertices
✓✓ ✓
N2TrkVtx(JF) Number of two-track vertex candidates (prior to
decay chain ﬁt)
✓✓ ✓
N1-trk vertices (JF) Number of single-prong displaced vertices ✓✓ ✓
N≥2-trk vertices (JF) Number of multi-prong displaced vertices ✓✓ ✓
Lxyz (2nd)(JF) Distance of 2nd vertex from PV ✓✓ ✓
Lxy (2nd)(JF) Transverse displacement of the 2nd vertex ✓✓ ✓
mTrk(2nd)(JF) Invariant mass of tracks associated with the 2nd
vertex
✓✓ ✓
E(2nd)(JF) Energy of the tracks associated with the 2nd
vertex
✓✓ ✓
fE (2nd)(JF) Jet energy fraction of the tracks associated with
the 2nd vertex
✓✓ ✓
NTrkAtVtx(2nd)(JF) Number of tracks associated with the 2nd vertex ✓✓ ✓
ηmin,max,avg
trk (2nd)(JF) Min., max. and avg. pseudorapidity of tracks at
the 2nd vertex
✓✓ ✓
123

===== PAGE 5 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 5 of 37 681
Fig. 4 Distributions of the outputs of the RNNIP b-tagging algorithm
for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the baselinet¯t simulated events:
a plight, b pc, c pb,a n dd the RNNIP b-tagging discriminant. The spikes
at plight ≈ 0.73 and pb ≈ 0.18 originate from jets with no tracks. The
location of these spikes is determined by the probability that a jet of a
given ﬂavour has no associated tracks: since light-ﬂavour jets are more
likely than b-jets to contain no tracks, plight > pb in such cases. The
corresponding spike at pc ≈ 0.09 is not easily visible since it occurs
within a steeply falling or rising region of the pc distribution
matrix elements (parton shower). This set-up was found to
produce the best modelling, out of a number of available gen-
erator conﬁgurations, of the multiplicity of additional jets and
of both the individual top-quark and t ¯t system p
T [19,20].
The t ¯t events with at least one leptonic W -boson decay are
considered, which ensures that a sufﬁciently large fraction
of b-jets, c-jets, and light-ﬂavour jets are present in the jet
population.
To train and to evaluate the performance of theb-tagging
algorithms at high jet pT,a Z′ sample was generated using
Pythia 8.212 with the A14 set of tuned parameters for the
underlying event and the leading-order NNPDF[2.3lo] [18]
parton distribution functions. The cross-section of the hard-
scattering process was modiﬁed by applying an event-by-
event weighting factor to broaden the natural width of the
resonance. The branching fractions of the decays were set
to be one-third each for the b¯b, c¯c and light-ﬂavour quark
pairs to obtain a sample uniformly populated by jets of each
ﬂavour. This results in a fairly ﬂat jet p
T spectrum between
250 GeV and 1.5 TeV forb-jets, c-jets, and light-ﬂavour jets,
with the falling tail of the pT distribution populated to 3 TeV
for each ﬂavour.
The EvtGen [21] package was used to simulate the decay
of heavy-ﬂavour hadrons. All simulated events have addi-
tional overlaid minimum-bias interactions generated with
Pythia 8.160 with the A3 set of tuned parameters [ 22] and
NNPDF[2.3lo] parton distribution functions to simulate pile-
up background.
2 These events are weighted to reproduce the
observed distribution of the average number of interactions
per bunch crossing in the corresponding data sample. The
2 Pile-up interactions correspond to additional pp collisions accompa-
nying the hard-scatter pp interaction in proton bunch collisions at the
LHC.
123

===== PAGE 6 =====
681 Page 6 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 5 Properties of secondary vertices reconstructed by theSV1 algo-
rithm for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the baselinet ¯t simulated
events: a the number of two-track vertices reconstructed within the jet,b
the transverse decay length, c the 3D decay length signiﬁcance deﬁned
as the signiﬁcance of the distance between the primary vertex and dis-
placed vertex, d the energy fraction, deﬁned as the energy of the tracks
in the displaced vertex relative to the energy of all tracks reconstructed
within the jet,e the invariant mass andf the number of tracks associated
with the vertex. The increased rate of light-ﬂavour jets at high trans-
verse decay length values is due to residual interactions with detector
material. The jumps in the frequency of reconstructed two-track vertices
(a) originates from combinatorics. Expecting(N · (N − 1))/2 possible
track pairs created from a set ofN tracks, this number is reduced due to
track selection criteria, resulting in low-side tails on each spike. The ﬁrst
(last) bin in the distribution does not account for underﬂow (overﬂow)
123

===== PAGE 7 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 7 of 37 681
Fig. 6 Properties of secondary vertices reconstructed by the
JetFitter algorithm for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the
baseline t ¯t simulated events: a the number of two-track vertices recon-
structed within the jet, b the transverse decay length, c the average 3D
decay length signiﬁcance, deﬁned as the signiﬁcance of the average dis-
tance between the primary vertex and displaced vertices, d the energy
fraction, deﬁned as the energy of the tracks in the displaced vertex rela-
tive to the energy of all tracks reconstructed within the jet,e the invariant
mass and f the number of tracks associated with the vertex of at least
two tracks. The increased rate of light-ﬂavour jets at high transverse
decay length values is due to residual interactions with detector material.
Expecting jumps in the frequency of reconstructed two-track vertices
originating from combinatorics as in the case ofSV1,t h e(N·(N− 1))/2
possible track pairs created from a set ofN tracks is reduced due to track
selection criteria, resulting in a smooth distribution. The ﬁrst (last) bin
in the distribution does not account for underﬂow (overﬂow)
123

===== PAGE 8 =====
681 Page 8 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 7 Distributions of the outputs of the DL1r b-tagging algorithm for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in t ¯t simulated events: a plight, b pc, c
pb, d DDL1r,a n de Dc
DL1r
simulated events were processed through the full ATLAS
detector simulation [23] based on Geant4 [24]. Interactions
of b-hadrons with the detector material were not simulated;c-
hadrons andτ-leptons are similarly affected. This may result
in sub-optimal identiﬁcation algorithm performance in data
for jets with very energetic particles that decay beyond the
IBL. ATLAS analyses apply dedicated correction factors and
corresponding uncertainties to account for the difference in
performance between data and simulation.
123

===== PAGE 9 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 9 of 37 681
Fig. 8 The light-ﬂavour jet and
c-jet rejection factors as a
function of εb for DL1r as well
as the low-level b-taggers
RNNIP, SVKine,a n d
JFKine. The statistical
uncertainties of the rejection
factors are calculated using
binomial uncertainties and are
indicated as coloured bands.
The lower two panels show the
ratio of the light-ﬂavour jet
rejection and the c-jet rejection
of the algorithms to RNNIP.
SV1 and JetFitter have
secondary-vertex-ﬁnding
efﬁciencies of approximately
80% and 90%, respectively; this
causes the rapid growth in
light-ﬂavour jet rejection around
these values of ε
b for SVKine
and JFKine.
4 Key ingredients for ﬂavour-tagging
Jet ﬂavour identiﬁcation relies upon a number of more fun-
damental objects reconstructed in the ATLAS detector. The
most important of these are charged-particle tracks, primary
vertices (PVs), and hadronic jets (‘jets’). Limited informa-
tion about the hadrons contained within hadronic jets from
the simulated event’s record is also used during algorithm
optimisation and performance studies. A short description
of each of these key ingredients is given below, and more
detailed information is available in Section 3 of Ref. [6].
Charged-particle tracks are reconstructed in the ID [ 25].
Only tracks with p
T > 500 MeV are used in jet ﬂavour tag-
ging, with further selection criteria applied to reject fake and
poorly measured tracks [ 26]. The total tracking efﬁciency
for charged pions with pT > 4 GeV ranges from 90% for
|η| < 1 to 70% in the forward region(2.3 < |η| < 2.5) of the
detector. Additional selection criteria for reconstructed tracks
are applied in the low-level b-tagging algorithms described
in Sect. 5 to maintain a high efﬁciency for charged parti-
cles from heavy-ﬂavour hadron decays while rejecting tracks
originating from pile-up.
Primary vertex reconstruction [ 27,28] on an event-by-
event basis is particularly important for b-tagging since it
deﬁnes the reference point from which track and vertex
displacements are computed. Reconstructed PVs are con-
strained to be within the luminous region of the colliding
LHC beams. A longitudinal vertex position resolution of
about 30µm is achieved for events with a high multiplicity of
reconstructed tracks, while the transverse resolution ranges
from 10 to 12µm, depending on the LHC running conditions
that determine the beam-spot size. Flavour tagging requires
at least one PV in each event, and the PV with the highest
sum of squared transverse momenta of contributing tracks
is selected as the primary interaction point or ‘hard-scatter
vertex’; all tracks contributing to a vertex are used in the
hard-scatter vertex determination – they need not be asso-
ciated to a hadronic jet. Charged-particle tracks originating
from b-hadron decays often have large transverse and lon-
gitudinal impact parameters, d
0 and z0 respectively, where
d0 is the distance of closest approach of the track to the PV
in the transverse plane, and z0 is the longitudinal separation
between the PV and the point on the track where d0 is mea-
sured, referred to below as the ‘perigee’.
Hadronic jets are built from ‘particle-ﬂow objects’, which
are constructed from signals in the ATLAS calorimeters and
ID; particle-ﬂow objects take advantage of the better res-
olution of particle tracking when low- p
T charged hadrons
result in geometrically-matched calorimeter deposits and a
charged-particle track [29]. The anti-kt algorithm with radius
123

===== PAGE 10 =====
681 Page 10 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 9 The light-ﬂavour jet and
c-jet rejection factors as a
function of εb for the high-level
b-taggers MV2c10, DL1,a n d
DL1r. The lower two panels
show the ratio of the
light-ﬂavour jet rejection and the
c-jet rejection of the algorithms
to MV2c10. The statistical
uncertainties of the rejection
factors are calculated using
binomial uncertainties and are
indicated as coloured bands
parameter R = 0.4[ 30], implemented in FastJet [31], is
used for jet ﬁnding. Jet transverse momenta are further cor-
rected to the corresponding particle-level jet p
T, based on
the simulation [ 32]. Remaining differences between simu-
lated events and observed data are evaluated using in situ
techniques, which exploit the transverse momentum balance
between a jet and a reference object such as a photon, Z
boson, or multi-jet system in data; corrections are applied to
simulated jets to bring them in line with data [32]. Jets with
p
T < 20 GeV or |η|≥ 2.5 are not considered for jet ﬂavour
identiﬁcation, as low-pT jets are outside the valid calibration
range and high-|η| jets are outside the tracking ﬁducial vol-
ume. In order to reduce the number of jets with large energy
fractions from pile-up collision vertices, the ‘jet vertex tag-
ger’ (JVT) algorithm is used [33]. The JVT procedure builds a
multivariate discriminant for each jet within|η| < 2.4 based
on the ID tracks ghost-associated
3 with the jet [34]; in partic-
ular, jets with a large fraction of high-momentum tracks from
pile-up vertices are less likely to pass the JVT requirement.
The JVT efﬁciency for jets originating from the hardpp scat-
tering is 92% in the simulation, but the rate of pile-up jets
3 The ghost-association algorithm collects tracks within a jet’s geomet-
ric catchment area, taking into account possibly overlapping jet areas
and is described in detail in Ref. [34].
with pT ≥ 60 GeV is sufﬁciently small that the JVT require-
ment is removed above this threshold. The reconstructed jet
direction and transverse momentum are especially impor-
tant inputs to ﬂavour-tagging, as they will determine which
charged-particle tracks should be considered for jet ﬂavour
identiﬁcation.
Tracks are matched to jets by setting a maximum allowed
angular separation /Delta1R between the track momenta, deﬁned
at the perigee, and the jet axis. Given that the decay prod-
ucts from higher-p
T b-hadrons are more collimated, the/Delta1R
requirement varies as a function of jet pT, being wider for
low-pT jets (0.45 for jet pT = 20 GeV) and narrower for
high- pT jets (0.26 for jet pT = 150 GeV); if more than one
jet fulﬁls the matching criteria, the closest jet is preferred.
The jet axis is also used to assign signed impact parameters
to tracks, where the sign is deﬁned to be positive if the track
intersects the jet axis in the transverse plane in front of the
primary vertex, and negative if the intersection lies behind
the primary vertex [5].
The ﬂavour of a jet in simulation is determined by the
nature of the hadrons it contains. Jets are labelled asb-jets if
at least one weakly decaying b-hadron having p
T ≥ 5G e V
is found within a cone of size/Delta1R = 0.3 around the jet axis.
If no b-hadrons are found, c-hadrons and then τ-leptons are
searched for, based on the same selection criteria. The jets
123

===== PAGE 11 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 11 of 37 681
Fig. 10 The light-ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejection factors at a ﬁxed b-
tagging efﬁciency εb as a function of jet pT. In each bin, the b-tagging
efﬁciency is set to 77%, and the resulting background rejection is shown.
a Shows the light-ﬂavour jet rejection for several low-level tagging algo-
rithms and DL1r, b shows thec-jet rejection for the same taggers.c and
d Show light-ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejection, respectively, for theDL1r,
DL1,a n dMV2c10 high-level taggers. The lower panels ofa and b show
the ratio of each algorithm’s background rejection to that of RNNIP;
the lower panels of c and d show the corresponding ratios to MV2c10.
The statistical uncertainties of the efﬁciencies and rejection factors are
calculated using binomial uncertainties and are indicated as coloured
bands. The drop in light-ﬂavour jet rejection at p
T ∼ 175 GeV ∼ mtop
is due to the overlap of decay products from boosted top-quark decays
matched to a c-hadron (τ-lepton) are labelled as c-jets (τ-
jets). The remaining jets are labelled as light-ﬂavour jets. For
jets with more than one heavy-ﬂavour hadron, e.g. from gluon
splitting to b¯b or c¯c, the procedure above is still followed,
and b¯b (c¯c) jets will receive a b (c) label.
5L o w - l e v e lb-taggers
This section describes the different low-level algorithms used
for b-jet identiﬁcation in the ATLAS Run 2 dataset. These
algorithms, designed to reconstruct the characteristic features
of b-jets, fall into two broad categories. The ﬁrst approach,
implemented in the IP2D and IP3D algorithms [ 35] and
described in Sect. 5.1, is inclusive and based on exploiting
the large impact parameters of the tracks originating from the
b-hadron decays. The newRNNIP [36] algorithm, developed
during Run 2 and described in Sect. 5.2, exploits a recurrent
neural network [37] to learn track impact-parameter correla-
tions in order to further improve the jet ﬂavour discrimina-
tion. The second approach explicitly reconstructs displaced
vertices. The SV1 algorithm [ 38], discussed in Sect. 5.3,
attempts to reconstruct an inclusive secondary vertex, while
the JetFitter algorithm [39], presented in Sect.5.4,a i m s
to reconstruct the full b-t o c-hadron decay chain.
5.1 Algorithms based on impact parameters
Two impact-parameter-based (IP-based) algorithms, IP2D
and IP3D [35], are used by ATLAS. TheIP2D tagger makes
use of the signed transverse impact parameter signiﬁcance
of tracks to construct a discriminating variable, whereas
123

===== PAGE 12 =====
681 Page 12 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 11 The b-tagging efﬁciency,εb, and background-jet rejection fac-
tors for several high-level b-taggers, including DL1r, as a function of
jet pT, evaluated using simulated t ¯t events. a Shows εb, b shows the
light-ﬂavour jet rejection, andc shows the c-jet rejection, all for a range
of jet pT bins at the inclusive 77% efﬁciency operating point, com-
m o n l yu s e di nA T L A Sa n a l y s e so fL H CR u n2pp collision data. The
lower panels show the ratio of each algorithm’s performance to that of
MV2c10. The statistical uncertainties of the efﬁciencies and rejection
factors are calculated using binomial uncertainties and are indicated as
coloured bands
IP3D uses both the signed transverse and signed longitu-
dinal impact parameter signiﬁcances4 in a two-dimensional
template to account for their correlation. The signed trans-
verse and longitudinal impact parameter signiﬁcances are
s h o w ni nF i g .1. Probability density functions (pdfs) obtained
from reference histograms of the signed transverse and lon-
gitudinal impact parameter signiﬁcances of tracks associated
with b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets are derived from
MC simulation. The pdfs are computed in exclusive cate-
gories that depend on the hit multiplicities of the tracks in
the different ID layers to increase the discriminating power.
In particular, the IBL hit pattern expectations and the second-
innermost layer’s information are fully exploited to improve
the b-tagging performance in LHC Run 2. A set of template
pdfs is produced using an equal mix of simulated t ¯t and Z
′
4 The impact parameter signiﬁcance Si of a track i is deﬁned as the
ratio of the track impact parameter to its uncertainty.
events for track categories with no hits in the ﬁrst two layers,
which are populated by long-lived b-hadrons traversing the
ﬁrst layers before they decay. Thet ¯t sample is used to popu-
late all remaining categories. The pdfs are used to calculate
r a t i o so ft h eb-jet, c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities on
a per-track basis. Log-likelihood ratio (LLR) discriminants
are then deﬁned as the sum of the logarithms of the per-
track probability ratios for each jet-ﬂavour hypothesis, e.g.∑
N
i=1 ln
(
pb(Si)/ plight(Si)
)
for the b-jet and light-ﬂavour jet
hypotheses, where N is the number of tracks associated with
the jet and pb(Si)
(
plight(Si)
)
is the template pdf for theb-jet
(light-ﬂavour jet) hypothesis, with Si the impact parameter
signiﬁcance of the track i. The ﬂavour probabilities of the
different tracks contributing to the sum are assumed to be
independent of each other. The log-likelihood ratios sepa-
rating b-jets from light-ﬂavour jets for the IP2D and IP3D
b-tagging algorithms are shown in Fig. 2. In addition to the
LLR separating b-jets from light-ﬂavour jets, two extra LLR
123

===== PAGE 13 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 13 of 37 681
Fig. 12 The b-tagging efﬁciency,εb, and background-jet rejection fac-
tors for several high-levelb-taggers, includingDL1r, as a function of jet
pT, evaluated using simulatedZ′ events, which mostly provide high-pT
jets. a shows εb, b shows the light-ﬂavour jet rejection, andc shows the
c-jet rejection, all for a wide range of jet pT bins at the inclusive 77%
efﬁciency operating point, commonly used in ATLAS analyses of LHC
Run 2 pp collision data. The lower panels show the ratio of each algo-
rithm’s performance to that of MV2c10. The statistical uncertainties
of the efﬁciencies and rejection factors are calculated using binomial
uncertainties and are indicated as coloured bands
discriminants are deﬁned to separate b-jets from c-jets and
c-jets from light-ﬂavour jets, respectively. These three likeli-
hood discriminants for both the IP2D and IP3D algorithms
are used as inputs to the high-level taggers.
5.2 Track-based recurrent neural network tagger
In the case of a b-hadron decay, several charged particles
can emerge from the secondary (or tertiary) decay vertex
with large impact parameters. The impact parameters of these
hadron-decay tracks are intrinsically correlated: if one track
is found with a large impact parameter then ﬁnding a sec-
ond track with a large impact parameter is more likely. If
no displaced decay is present, as in light-ﬂavour jets, then
such a correlation for large impact parameter signiﬁcance is
not expected. The baseline IP-based b-tagging algorithms,
described in Sect. 5.1 uses likelihood templates to compute
per-ﬂavour conditional likelihoods. Due to the large event
sample needed to compute such templates and therefore the
difﬁculty in exploiting more input variables as additional his-
togram axes, IP-based b-tagging algorithms assume that the
properties of each track in a jet are independent of all other
tracks, which limits their ability to fully model the proper-
ties of b-jets. Recurrent neural networks (RNN) can be used
to overcome this challenge by directly learning sequential
dependencies between the variables in sequences of arbi-
trary length, as is the case for the tracks in a jet. For each
selected track, the lifetime-correlated signed transverse(S
d0 )
and longitudinal (Sz0 ) impact parameter signiﬁcances, the
fraction of transverse momentum carried by the track rela-
tive to the jet p
T ( pfrac
T ), the angular distance between the
track and the jet-axis (/Delta1R(track, jet-axis)) and the hit mul-
tiplicity of the track in the different ID layers are fed into
the network [36]. The tracks are ordered by the |S
d0 | values
to form a sequence emphasising the particular importance
this kinematic feature. This sequence is then passed to the
neural network cells as a vector of the ordered-track fea-
tures. During the training, the b-jet and c-jet p
T spectra are
123

===== PAGE 14 =====
681 Page 14 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 13 The b-tagging efﬁciency,εb, and background-jet rejection fac-
tors for several high-level b-taggers, including DL1r, as a function of
jet η. a Showsεb, b shows the light-ﬂavour jet rejection, andc shows the
c-jet rejection, all at the inclusive 77% efﬁciency operating point, com-
monly used in ATLAS analyses of LHC Run 2 pp collision data. The
lower panels show the ratio of each algorithm’s performance to that of
MV2c10. The statistical uncertainties of the efﬁciencies and rejection
factors are calculated using binomial uncertainties and are indicated as
coloured bands
separately reweighted to the light-ﬂavour jet spectrum so as
to prevent the RNN from learning to discriminate directly
from sample- and ﬂavour-speciﬁc momentum distributions.
The outputs provided by the network correspond to the b-
jet, c-jet, and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities. Figure3 shows a
schematic of the network architecture used for this algorithm,
known as RNNIP.
The outputs of the RNN are combined into the b-tagging
discriminant function as deﬁned as:
DRNNIP = ln
( pb
fc · pc + (1 − fc) plight
)
,
where pb, pc and plight are the three jet-ﬂavour probabilities,
and fc denotes the c-jet fraction. The relative importance of
c-jet and light-ﬂavour-jet rejection can be changed by varying
fc. In this paper an optimised c-jet fraction of 0.07 is used
in order evaluate the performance of the RNNIP b-tagging
algorithm in t ¯t and Z′ → q ¯q events. This value is chosen as
a compromise to ensure good rejection factors for bothc-jets
and light-ﬂavour jets in a large b-tagging efﬁciency range.
The distribution of the RNNIP b-tagging discriminant for b-
jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the baseline t ¯t simulated
events is shown in Fig. 4.
5.3 Secondary-vertex-tagging algorithm
The secondary-vertex-tagging algorithm, SV1 [38], recon-
structs a single displaced secondary vertex in a jet. The recon-
struction starts by identifying the possible two-track vertices
built with all tracks associated with the jet, while rejecting
any tracks making two-track vertices compatible with K
0
S or
/Lambda1decays, photon conversions or hadronic interactions with
the detector material. The SV1 algorithm runs iteratively on
all tracks contributing to the selected two-track vertices, try-
ing to ﬁt one secondary vertex. In each iteration, the track-
to-vertex matching is evaluated using a χ
2 test. The track
with the largest χ2 is removed and the vertex ﬁt is repeated
until an acceptable vertexχ2 and a vertex invariant mass less
123

===== PAGE 15 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 15 of 37 681
Fig. 14 The b-tagging efﬁciency,εb, and background-jet rejection fac-
tors for several high-level b-taggers, including DL1r, as a function of
the average instantaneous luminosity ⟨μ⟩. a Shows εb, b shows the
light-ﬂavour jet rejection, and c shows the c-jet rejection, all for a wide
range of jetpT bins at the inclusive 77% efﬁciency operating point, com-
m o n l yu s e di nA T L A Sa n a l y s e so fL H CR u n2pp collision data. The
lower panels show the ratio of each algorithm’s performance to that of
MV2c10. The statistical uncertainties of the efﬁciencies and rejection
factors are calculated using binomial uncertainties and are indicated as
coloured bands
than 6 GeV are obtained. With this approach, the decay prod-
ucts from b- and c-hadrons are typically assigned to a single
common secondary vertex. The SV1 algorithm also beneﬁts
from several improvements [ 38] introduced during Run 2,
and resulting in increased pile-up rejection and an overall
enhancement of the performance at high jet pT. Among the
various algorithm improvements, additional track-cleaning
requirements based on silicon detector hit multiplicity are
applied to jets in the high-pseudorapidity region (|η|≥ 1.5)
in order to improve the quality of the selected tracks. The
fake-vertex rate is also better controlled by limiting the algo-
rithm to only consider the 25 highest- p
T tracks in the jets.
Finally, eight discriminating variables, including the jet pT
and η, the number of tracks associated with the SV1 ver-
tex, the invariant mass of the secondary vertex, its energy
fraction (deﬁned as the total energy of all the tracks associ-
ated with the secondary vertex divided by the energy of all
the tracks associated with the jet), and the three-dimensional
decay length signiﬁcance, are used as inputs to the high-level
taggers. Six of these variables are illustrated in Fig. 5.
In order to quantify the ﬂavour-tagging performance of
the SV1 algorithm, a simple feed-forward neural network
was trained by exclusively using the outputs of the algorithm
and the p
T and ηof the input jets. The network was trained in
the same way as the main high-level tagger and on identical
training samples, as explained in Sect.6. This new low-level
tagger, deﬁned only to illustrate the performance of SV1 rel-
ative to other algorithms described in this paper, is referred
to as SVKine.
5.4 Topological multi-vertex ﬁnding algorithm
The topological multi-vertex ﬁnding algorithm,JetFitter
[39], exploits the topological structure of weak b- and c-
hadron decays inside the jet and tries to reconstruct the full
b-hadron decay chain. A modiﬁed Kalman ﬁlter [40]i su s e d
123

===== PAGE 16 =====
681 Page 16 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 15 The b-tagging efﬁciency εb and background-jet rejection fac-
tors for several operating points as a function of jet pT. a Shows the
DL1r εb, b shows the light-ﬂavour jet rejection, and c shows the c-jet
rejection, all for a wide range of jetpT bins and for efﬁciency operating
points commonly used in ATLAS analyses of LHC Run 2pp data. The
lower panels show the ratio of each operating point’s performance to
that of the 70% operating point. The statistical uncertainties of the efﬁ-
ciency (rejection) are calculated using binomial uncertainties and are
indicated as coloured bands
to ﬁnd a common line on which the primary,b- and c-hadron
decay vertices lie, approximating the b-hadron ﬂight path as
well as the vertex positions. With this approach, it is possible
to resolve the b-o r c-hadron decay vertex even if only a sin-
gle track is attached to it. The JetFitter algorithm also
beneﬁts from several improvements [ 39] introduced during
Run 2. These include a reoptimisation of the track selection
to better mitigate the effect of pile-up tracks, an improvement
in the rejection of interactions with detector material, and the
introduction of a vertex-mass-dependent selection during the
decay chain ﬁt to increase the efﬁciency for tertiary vertex
reconstruction. Eight discriminating variables, including the
track multiplicity at the JetFitter displaced vertices, the
invariant mass of tracks associated with these vertices, their
energy fraction and their average three-dimensional decay
length signiﬁcance, are used as inputs to the high-level tag-
gers. Six of these variables are illustrated in Fig. 6. Finally,
the discrimination of c-jets from b-jets and light-ﬂavour
jets is further improved by more speciﬁcally exploiting jets
for which only a single secondary vertex is reconstructed
with intermediate charged decay multiplicity and comparable
decay distance to b-hadrons in jets. A set of nine additional
variables [35], among which the number, the invariant mass
and the energy of the tracks associated with the secondary
vertex as well as their rapidity, computed with respect to the
jet axis and the vector deﬁned between the primary and sec-
ondary vertices, are used as inputs to the high-levelb-tagging
algorithms.
Similarly to the SV1 algorithm, the ﬂavour-tagging per-
formance of JetFitter is assessed from a simple feed-
forward neural network trained by exclusively using the out-
puts of JetFitter and the input jets’ p
T and η.This train-
ing was performed in the same way as for the main high-
level tagger and on identical training samples, as explained
123

===== PAGE 17 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 17 of 37 681
Fig. 16 The light-ﬂavour jet
and b-jet rejection factors as a
function of c-jet efﬁciency for
DL1 and DL1r.T h el o w e rt w o
panels show the DL1r-to-DL1
ratios of the light-ﬂavour jet
rejection and the c-jet rejection.
The statistical uncertainties of
the rejection are calculated
using binomial uncertainties and
are indicated as coloured bands
Fig. 17 The light-ﬂavour jet rejection as a function of b-jet rejection
for inclusive 20%, 30%, and 40%c-jet efﬁciency operating points for the
DL1 and DL1r high-level c-taggers. Each point on a curve corresponds
to a particular choice of fb, the b-jet background fraction in the log-
likelihood ratio that deﬁnes the tagging discriminant; the star symbols
indicate the f
b = 0.2 point
in Sect.6. This new low-level tagger, deﬁned only to illustrate
the performance of JetFitter relative to other algorithms
described in this paper, is referred to as JFKine.
6 High-level ﬂavour-taggers, the DL1 series
To maximise the ﬂavour-tagging performance for Run 2,
the output quantities of the low-level algorithms are com-
bined using deep-learning classiﬁers, based on fully con-
nected multi-layer feed-forward neural networks (NN) [41],
forming the so-called DL1 algorithm series.
These algorithms are trained with a hybrid training sam-
ple, for which 70% of the jets in the sample are from t ¯t
events and the remaining 30% are from Z′ → q ¯q events,
using TensorFlow [42] with the Keras [42] front-end and the
Adam optimiser [43]. The DL1 algorithm, introduced at the
beginning of Run 2 in Ref. [ 6], exploits as input the IP2D,
IP3D, SV1 and JetFitter algorithm outputs, while the
DL1r algorithm also includes the jet RNNIP output proba-
bilities.
The level of correlation between the different low-level
algorithm outputs varies as a function of the jet ﬂavour and
the kinematic range. In general, large correlations between
the IP2D, IP3D, SV1 and JetFitter algorithms are
observed for heavy-ﬂavour jets. However, these correlations
are signiﬁcantly reduced in the case of light-ﬂavour jets. In
addition, such correlations are further reduced in high- pT
regimes. On the other hand, theRNNIP algorithm contributes
a set of input variables which are not strongly correlated.
123

===== PAGE 18 =====
681 Page 18 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Fig. 18 A comparison of the
c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet
background rejection factors
versus the b-tagging efﬁciency
for training and validation
samples for the DL1r b-tagging
algorithm. The training sample
contains events used to optimise
the DL1r algorithm, while the
validation sample comprises a
statistically distinct set of events
that were not used during
training. Efﬁciencies and
rejection factors are both derived
separately for each sample. The
lower two panels show the ratios
of training sample to validation
sample light-ﬂavour jet rejection
and c-jet rejection for DL1r.
The statistical uncertainties of
the rejection are calculated
using binomial uncertainties and
are indicated as coloured bands.
No difference in performance is
observed above the 2% level,
which is below the precision of
the calibration measurements
for these quantities
The DL1r algorithm training exploits these correlation dif-
ferences to reach the best tagging performance.
In addition, the kinematic properties of the jets, namelypT
and |η|, are included in the training in order to take advantage
of the correlations with the other input variables. However, to
avoid differences between the kinematic distributions of sig-
nal and background jets being used to discriminate between
the different jet ﬂavours, the input training dataset is resam-
pled. The resampling procedure ensures that jets in the train-
ing sample are uniformly distributed in jet p
T and ηfor each
ﬂavour class. No kinematic resampling is applied at the eval-
uation stage of the algorithms. Table1 presents a detailed list
of input variables used by each algorithm.
The DL1r NN has a multidimensional output correspond-
ing to the probabilities for a jet to be a b-jet, a c-jet or a
light-ﬂavour jet. The use of a multi-class network architec-
ture provides the algorithm with a smaller memory footprint
than the previous ATLAS MV2c10 algorithm [6] based on
boosted decision trees (BDTs). The topology of the network
consists of a mixture of fully connected hidden layers. The
DL1r algorithm parameters, listed in Table 2, include the
architecture of the NN, the number of training epochs, the
learning rates and training batch size. Each of these parame-
ters is optimised in order to maximise the b-tagging perfor-
mance. Batch normalisation [44] is added by default since it
is found to improve the performance.
Training with multiple output nodes offers additional ﬂex-
ibility when constructing the ﬁnal output discriminant by
combining the b-jet, c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities.
Since all ﬂavours are treated equally during training, the
trained network can be used for both b-jet and c-jet tagging.
The ﬁnal DL1r b-tagging discriminant is deﬁned as:
D
DL1r = ln
( pb
fc · pc + (1 − fc) · plight
)
,
where pb, pc and plight represent respectively the b-jet, c-jet
and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities, and fc denotes the effec-
tive c-jet fraction in the background hypothesis. Using this
approach, the c-jet fraction in the background can be chosen
a posteriori in order to optimise the performance of the algo-
rithm at physics analysis level. In this paper, an optimised
c-jet fraction of 0.018 is used to evaluate the performance of
the DL1r b-tagging algorithm in simulated t ¯t and Z′ → q ¯q
events. This value is chosen as a compromise to ensure good
rejection factors for bothc-jet and light-ﬂavour jets in a large
b-tagging efﬁciency range across a number of analyses. In
particular, the ATLAS measurements ofVH , H → b¯b pro-
duction [45] and t ¯tH , H → b¯b production [46] were con-
sidered in this optimisation.
123

===== PAGE 19 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 19 of 37 681
Fig. 19 A comparison of performance in jetpT bins between the train-
ing and validation t ¯t samples for DL1r. The training sample contains
events used to optimise the DL1r algorithm, while the validation sam-
ple comprises a statistically distinct set of events that were not used
during training. The a b-tagging efﬁciency,b c-jet rejection and c light-
ﬂavour jet rejection are shown for a broad p
T range at the inclusive
77% efﬁciency operating point, commonly used in ATLAS analyses of
LHC Run 2 pp data. This operating point is derived using the com-
bined training and validation samples. The lower panels show the ratio
of training sample performance to validation sample performance. No
statistically signiﬁcant difference in performance is observed at the level
of the precision of data-based efﬁciency measurements, which is∼1%
for b-jets, ∼5% for c-jets, and ∼15% for light-ﬂavour jets. The sta-
tistical uncertainties of the efﬁciency (rejection) are calculated using
binomial uncertainties and are indicated as coloured bands
Table 2 List of optimised
hyperparameters used in the
DL1r ﬂavour-tagging
algorithms
Hyperparameter Value
Number of input variables 31
Number of hidden layers 8
Number of nodes [per layer] [256, 128, 60, 48, 36, 24, 12, 6]
Learning rate 0.01
Training batch size 15 000
Activation function ReLu
Number of training epochs 200
Free (trainable) parameters 59 275
Fixed parameters 1140
Training sample size 22 M jets
123

===== PAGE 20 =====
681 Page 20 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
Similarly, the DL1r c-tagging discriminant is deﬁned as:
Dc
DL1r = ln
( pc
fb · pb + (1 − fb) · plight
)
, (1)
where fb represents the effective b-jet fraction in the back-
ground training sample. A b-jet fraction of 0.2 is used to
evaluate the performance of the DL1r c-tagging algorithm
in this paper in simulatedt ¯t and Z′ → q ¯q events. Larger than
the fc fraction presented above, the fb fraction is chosen here
to maximise the b-jet rejection factor at the given c-tagging
efﬁciency rates of 20% and 30%. The output probabilities of
the DL1r b-tagging algorithms for b-jets, c-jets and light-
ﬂavour jets in the baseline t ¯t simulated events are shown in
Fig. 7a–c; the corresponding b-tagging and c-tagging dis-
criminants are also shown in Fig. 7d and e.
7 Flavour-tagging performance
The performance of a ﬂavour-tagging algorithm is charac-
terised by the probability or efﬁciency of correctly tagging a
signal jet, ε,and the probability of mistakenly identifying a
background jet, referred to as the mis-tag rate. In this paper,
the performance of the algorithms is quantiﬁed in terms of
background-jet rejection factors, deﬁned as 1 /ε for back-
ground jets.
7.1 b-tagging performance
When analysis of LHC data requires the identiﬁcation of
b-jets, the tagging efﬁciency of a given requirement on the
b-tagging discriminant is denoted by ε
b, and the charm-jet
and light-ﬂavour jet rejection factors are 1 /εc and 1/εlight,
respectively. Many ATLAS analyses of Run 2 LHC data use
a requirement on the DL1r discriminant, or bins built from
several such requirements, that do not vary with jet kinemat-
ics. These are referred to as ‘ﬁxed-cut operating points’, and
they are labelled according to their inclusive efﬁciency for
the population of b-jets present in the t ¯t sample used to train
DL1r; for example, the DL1r discriminant value for which
77% of the b-jets in a t ¯t sample have a higher score is called
the ‘77% operating point’.
Figures 8 and 9 show the light-ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejec-
tion factors as a function ofε
b for a variety of low- and high-
level b-taggers. At high-efﬁciency operating points, RNNIP
provides the best rejection among the low-level taggers, while
at low efﬁciency the secondary-vertex ﬁnders SVKine and
JFKine achieve the highest background rejection. DL1r
substantially outperforms all low-level taggers across the εb
range: the low-level algorithms exploit different jet proper-
ties, and combining these produces large gains. DL1r also
exceeds the performance of the BDT-based MV2c10 tagger
and the DL1 tagger [6].
It is also important to gauge the b-tagging performance
across a broad pT range, because the ATLAS physics pro-
gramme relies on excellent background rejection in a variety
of situations, depending on the needs of a given analysis of
the LHC data. In Fig. 10, the background rejection achieved
at a ﬁxed b-tagging efﬁciency of 77% is shown in bins of jet
p
T; this ﬁxed-efﬁciency is obtained by choosing the appro-
priate b-tagging discriminant requirement in each pT bin.
Figures 11 and 12 show the εb values and background
rejection factors for jets from simulated SM t ¯t and ﬂattened
Z′ samples, respectively, in bins of jetpT; several high-level
b-taggers are compared at the 77% operating point. DL1r
performs signiﬁcantly better than previous ATLASb-taggers
across a broad range of jet pT, although some common pat-
terns are worth noting: (1) the aroundpT ≈ 175 GeV and falls
with pT above this point, and (2) the light-ﬂavour jet rejection
falls until about 1 TeV, above which it is approximately con-
stant. However, while MV2c10 maintains a nearly ﬂat c-jet
rejection versus jet p
T,t h e DL1 and DL1r rejection fac-
tors improve with pT. The enhanced performance for highly
energetic jets has yielded substantially stronger tests of the
Standard Model with the ATLAS data. For example, recent
searches for new resonances decaying intob¯b pairs using the
DL1r b-tagger achieved about a factor of 3 stronger limits on
new narrow resonances decaying into b¯b than predicted via
luminosity-scaling of previous results using MV2c10 [47].
Similarly, the b-tagging efﬁciencies and background-jet
rejection factors vary with the jet pseudorapidity η, in large
part due to the poorer track d0 and z0 resolutions at high
|η| [48]. Figure13 showsεb and the background-jet rejection
as a function of jetη.The b-tagging efﬁciency andc-jet mis-
tag rates are higher for all compared high-level taggers in
the central region than at high|η|, in part due to inefﬁciency
of secondary-vertexing in the forward region [ 38,39]. The
light-ﬂavour jet rejection performance also deteriorates for
more forward jets. However,DL1r consistently outperforms
DL1 and MV2c10 across jet ηranges.
The ATLAS ﬂavour-tagging algorithms are stable versus
the number of pile-up interactions accompanying the hard-
scatter collisions, as shown in Fig.14. While there is a small
slope in the b-tagging efﬁciency versus the average number
of interactions per bunch crossing ⟨μ⟩,εb only changes by
about 2% over the range 10 < ⟨μ⟩ < 70 for the inclusive
77% efﬁciency operating point. The light-ﬂavour jet andc-jet
rejection factors also show little dependence on ⟨μ⟩.
The 60%, 70%, 77%, and 85% operating points are com-
monly used in ATLAS physics analyses interpreting the LHC
Run 2 pp dataset [6]. Figure 15 shows the b-tagging efﬁ-
ciency and background-jet rejection factors versus jet p
T for
DL1r at these commonly used operating points. It is worth
noting that relatively small changes in b-tagging efﬁciency
123

===== PAGE 21 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 21 of 37 681
operating point of the order of 10% result in very different
background rejection factors, which range from∼10 to∼103
for light-ﬂavour jets and from ∼3t o ∼40 for charm jets.
7.2 Charm-tagging performance
A growing number of ATLAS analyses of LHC data require
identiﬁcation of c-jets in order to probe physics processes
involving ﬁnal-state charm quarks. For example, the search
for Higgs boson decays into charm quarks aims to obtain
direct evidence of the charm-quark Yukawa coupling param-
eter by examining a sample of events with two c-tagged
jets [49]. An algorithm’s performance is indicated by itsb-jet
and light-ﬂavour jet rejection factors, 1/ε
b and 1/εlight, at a
given charm-tagging efﬁciency,εc. Due to charmed hadrons
having shorter lifetimes and smaller masses than b-hadrons,
the identiﬁcation of charm jets is challenging, and the efﬁ-
ciency of the optimal operating point tends be much lower
than for b-tagging.
Figure 16 presents the b-jet and light-ﬂavour jet rejection
factors as a function of the c-tagging efﬁciency, evaluated
in a population of jets taken from a sample of simulated t ¯t
events. Figure 17 shows the light-ﬂavour jet and b-jet rejec-
tion factors attained by the DL1 and DL1r algorithms for a
ﬁxed charm-tagging efﬁciency, again evaluated in jets from
a t ¯t sample. These ‘iso-efﬁciency’ curves are obtained by
varying the parameter f
b used to deﬁne the c-tagging dis-
criminant introduced in Eq. (1).
7.3 MC generator dependence
A variety of MC event generators are used in ATLAS analyses
to model various production processes at the LHC. Pythia
[15], Herwig [50], and Sherpa [51] are commonly used
parton-shower and hadronisation programs that describe the
structure and composition of hadronic jets. ATLAS Pythia
and Herwig MC samples also utilise the EvtGen pack-
age to simulate the decay chains of b- and c-hadrons. The
choice of parton-shower generator, hadronisation model, and
hadron-decay model affects the predicted performance of
the ATLAS ﬂavour-taggers. Tagging efﬁciencies and mis-tag
rates have been studied using various MC generator versions,
settings, and tuned parameter values [52]. These effects are
taken into account by applying generator-speciﬁc corrections
to the simulation.
7.4 Overtraining checks
In order to correct the tagging rates of jets in simulation,
corresponding rates are measured in data through a variety
of procedures [ 6,53–56], reaching a precision as good as
1% in b-tagging efﬁciency for b-jets with p
T ∼ 100 GeV;
the most precise measurement of the c-jet (light-ﬂavour jet)
mis-tag rate has uncertainties of approximately 5% (15%).
Efﬁciencies and mis-tag rates in simulation are adjusted via
per-jet weights or ‘scale factors’ such that they reﬂect the
performance measured in data. However,t ¯t MC events used
to train the RNNIP and DL1r algorithms are also used in
the efﬁciency measurements and in physics analyses utilis-
ing ﬂavour-tagging. For the calibration procedure to result
in a properly corrected simulation, the DL1r performance
on the ‘training’ sample, used to optimise the tagging algo-
rithms, and a ‘validation’ sample, comprising MC events not
contained in the training sample, must be consistent to within
the uncertainty associated with the corresponding data-based
measurement.
Figure 18 shows the background rejection factors versus
the b-tagging efﬁciency separately for the training and vali-
dation samples of t ¯t events. Figure 19 presents background
rejection factors and b-tagging efﬁciency versus the jet p
T,
and the expected performance in the training and validation
samples is again compared. No discrepancy is observed that
is signiﬁcant relative to the precision of efﬁciency measure-
ments, indicating that it is safe to re-use the events used in
DL1r training in physics analyses.
8 Conclusion
Several ﬂavour-tagging algorithms are used to identify jets
containing heavy-ﬂavour hadrons in data recorded by the
ATLAS experiment during Run 2 of the LHC. The recent
ATLAS strategy combines the results of low-level algorithms
(IP2D, IP3D, SV1, JetFitter and RNNIP) into high-
level algorithms based on the DL1r feed-forward neural
network classiﬁer. The low-level algorithms either exploit
the large impact parameters of tracks left by heavy-ﬂavour
hadron decay products or attempt to directly reconstruct their
decay vertices. Large increases in background-jet rejection
are obtained by theDL1r algorithms compared to each indi-
vidual low-level algorithm and to previous tagging algo-
rithms, illustrating the high complementarity of the low-level
inputs. In a sample of simulated Standard Model t ¯t events,
light-ﬂavour jet (charm-jet) rejection factors of 170 (5) are
achieved at ab-jet identiﬁcation efﬁciency of 77%; similarly,
at a c-jet efﬁciency of 30%, the obtained light-ﬂavour jet (b-
jet) rejection factor is 70 (9).
Acknowledgements We thank CERN for the very successful operation
of the LHC, as well as the support staff from our institutions without
whom ATLAS could not be operated efﬁciently.
We acknowledge the support of ANPCyT, Argentina; YerPhI, Arme-
nia; ARC, Australia; BMWFW and FWF, Austria; ANAS, Azerbaijan;
CNPq and FAPESP, Brazil; NSERC, NRC and CFI, Canada; CERN;
ANID, Chile; CAS, MOST and NSFC, China; Minciencias, Colombia;
MEYS CR, Czech Republic; DNRF and DNSRC, Denmark; IN2P3-
CNRS and CEA-DRF/IRFU, France; SRNSFG, Georgia; BMBF, HGF
and MPG, Germany; GSRI, Greece; RGC and Hong Kong SAR, China;
123

===== PAGE 22 =====
681 Page 22 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
ISF and Benoziyo Center, Israel; INFN, Italy; MEXT and JSPS, Japan;
CNRST, Morocco; NWO, Netherlands; RCN, Norway; MEiN, Poland;
FCT, Portugal; MNE/IFA, Romania; MESTD, Serbia; MSSR, Slovakia;
ARRS and MIZŠ, Slovenia; DSI/NRF, South Africa; MICINN, Spain;
SRC and Wallenberg Foundation, Sweden; SERI, SNSF and Cantons
of Bern and Geneva, Switzerland; MOST, Taiwan; TENMAK, Türkiye;
STFC, United Kingdom; DOE and NSF, United States of America. In
addition, individual groups and members have received support from
BCKDF, CANARIE, Compute Canada and CRC, Canada; PRIMUS
21/SCI/017 and UNCE SCI/013, Czech Republic; COST, ERC, ERDF,
Horizon 2020 and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, European Union;
Investissements d’Avenir Labex, Investissements d’Avenir Idex and
ANR, France; DFG and AvH Foundation, Germany; Herakleitos, Thales
and Aristeia programmes co-ﬁnanced by EU-ESF and the Greek NSRF,
Greece; BSF-NSF and MINERV A, Israel; Norwegian Financial Mecha-
nism 2014-2021, Norway; NCN and NAW A, Poland; La Caixa Banking
Foundation, CERCA Programme Generalitat de Catalunya and PROM-
ETEO and GenT Programmes Generalitat Valenciana, Spain; Göran
Gustafssons Stiftelse, Sweden; The Royal Society and Leverhulme
Trust, United Kingdom.
The crucial computing support from all WLCG partners is acknowl-
edged gratefully, in particular from CERN, the ATLAS Tier-1 facili-
ties at TRIUMF (Canada), NDGF (Denmark, Norway, Sweden), CC-
IN2P3 (France), KIT/GridKA (Germany), INFN-CNAF (Italy), NL-
T1 (Netherlands), PIC (Spain), ASGC (Taiwan), RAL (UK) and BNL
(USA), the Tier-2 facilities worldwide and large non-WLCG resource
providers. Major contributors of computing resources are listed in
Ref. [57].
Data A vailability Statement This manuscript has no associated data
or the data will not be deposited. [Authors’ comment: “All ATLAS sci-
entiﬁc output is published in journals, and preliminary results are made
available in Conference Notes. All are openly available, without restric-
tion on use by external parties beyond copyright law and the standard
conditions agreed by CERN. Data associated with journal publications
are also made available: tables and data from plots (e.g. cross section
values, likelihood proﬁles, selection efﬁciencies, cross section limits,
...) are stored in appropriate repositories such as HEPDATA ( http://
hepdata.cedar.ac.uk/). ATLAS also strives to make additional material
related to the paper available that allows a reinterpretation of the data
in the context of new theoretical models. For example, an extended
encapsulation of the analysis is often provided for measurements in the
framework of RIVET (http://rivet.hepforge.org/).” This information is
taken from the ATLAS Data Access Policy, which is a public docu-
ment that can be downloaded from http://opendata.cern.ch/record/413
[opendata.cern.ch].]
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-
bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation,
distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you
give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, pro-
vide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes
were made. The images or other third party material in this article
are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indi-
cated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not
included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permit-
ted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copy-
right holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecomm
ons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Funded by SCOAP
3.S C O A P3 supports the goals of the International
Year of Basic Sciences for Sustainable Development.
References
1. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS experiment at the CERN large
hadron collider. JINST 3, S08003 (2008). https://doi.org/10.1088/
1748-0221/3/08/S08003
2. L. Evans, P. Bryant, L.H.C. Machine, JINST 3, S08001 (2008).
https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-0221/3/08/S08001
3. ATLAS Collaboration, Observation of H → b¯b decays
and VH production with the ATLAS detector. Phys. Lett. B
786, 59 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2018.09.013.
arXiv:1808.08238 [hep-ex]
4. ATLAS Collaboration, Observation of Higgs boson production in
association with a top quark pair at the LHC with the ATLAS
detector. Phys. Lett. B 784, 173 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
physletb.2018.07.035. arXiv:1806.00425 [hep-ex]
5. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of b-jet identiﬁcation in the
ATLAS experiment. JINST11, P04008 (2016). https://doi.org/10.
1088/1748-0221/11/04/P04008 . arXiv:1512.01094 [hep-ex]
6. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS b-jet identiﬁcation performance
and efﬁciency measurement with t ¯t events in pp collisions at√
s = 13 TeV. Eur. Phys. J. C 79, 970 (2019). https://doi.org/
10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-7450-8 . arXiv:1907.05120 [hep-ex]
7. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS insertable B-layer technical
design report. ATLAS-TDR-19; CERN-LHCC-2010-013 (2010).
https://cds.cern.ch/record/1291633. [Addendum: ATLAS-TDR-
19-ADD-1; CERN-LHCC-2012-009 (2012). https://cds.cern.ch/
record/1451888]
8. B. Abbott et al., Production and integration of the ATLAS
Insertable B-Layer. JINST 13, T05008 (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1088/1748-0221/13/05/T05008 . arXiv:1803.00844 [physics.ins-
det]
9. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS trigger system
in 2015. Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 317 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1140/
epjc/s10052-017-4852-3 . arXiv:1611.09661 [hep-ex]
10. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS collaboration software and
ﬁrmware. ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-001 (2021). https://cds.cern.ch/
record/2767187
11. P. Nason, A new method for combining NLO QCD with shower
Monte Carlo algorithms. JHEP 11, 040 (2004). https://doi.org/10.
1088/1126-6708/2004/11/040 . arXiv:hep-ph/0409146
12. S. Frixione, P. Nason, C. Oleari, Matching NLO QCD computa-
tions with parton shower simulations: the POWHEG method. JHEP
11, 070 (2007). https://doi.org/10.1088/1126-6708/2007/11/070 .
arXiv:0709.2092 [hep-ph]
13. S. Frixione, G. Ridolﬁ, P. Nason, A positive-weight next-to-
leading-order Monte Carlo for heavy ﬂavour hadroproduction.
JHEP 09, 126 (2007). https://doi.org/10.1088/1126-6708/2007/
09/126. arXiv:0707.3088 [hep-ph]
14. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, A general framework for
implementing NLO calculations in shower Monte Carlo programs:
the POWHEG BOX. JHEP06, 043 (2010).https://doi.org/10.1007/
JHEP06(2010)043. arXiv:1002.2581 [hep-ph]
15. T. Sjöstrand, S. Mrenna, P. Skands, A brief introduction to PYTHIA
8.1. Comput. Phys. Commun. 178, 852 (2008). https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.cpc.2008.01.036. arXiv:0710.3820 [hep-ph]
16. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Pythia 8 tunes to 7 TeV data. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2014-021 (2014).https://cds.cern.ch/record/1966419
17. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions for the LHC run II.
JHEP 04, 040 (2015). https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP04(2015)040.
arXiv:1410.8849 [hep-ph]
18. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions with LHC data. Nucl. Phys. B
867, 244 (2013).https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2012.10.003.
arXiv:1207.1303 [hep-ph]
123

===== PAGE 23 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 23 of 37 681
19. ATLAS Collaboration, Studies on top-quark Monte Carlo mod-
elling for Top2016. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2016-020 (2016). https://
cds.cern.ch/record/2216168
20. ATLAS Collaboration, Study of top-quark pair modelling and
uncertainties using ATLAS measurements at√ s = 13 TeV. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2020-023 (2020).https://cds.cern.ch/record/2730443
21. D.J. Lange, The EvtGen particle decay simulation package. Nucl.
Instrum. Methods A 462, 152 (2001). https://doi.org/10.1016/
S0168-9002(01)00089-4
22. ATLAS Collaboration, The Pythia 8 A3 tune description of
ATLAS minimum bias and inelastic measurements incorporating
the Donnachie–Landshoff diffractive model. ATL-PHYS-PUB-
2016-017 (2016). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2206965
23. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS simulation infrastructure.
Eur. Phys. J. C 70, 823 (2010). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/
s10052-010-1429-9 . arXiv:1005.4568 [physics.ins-det]
24. GEANT4 Collaboration, S. Agostinelli et al., Geant4—a simu-
lation toolkit. Nucl. Instrum. Methods A 506, 250 (2003). https://
doi.org/10.1016/S0168-9002(03)01368-8
25. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS track recon-
struction algorithms in dense environments in LHC Run 2.
Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 673 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/
s10052-017-5225-7 . arXiv:1704.07983 [hep-ex]
26. ATLAS Collaboration, Early inner detector tracking performance
in the 2015 data at √
s = 13 TeV. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-051
(2015). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2110140
27. ATLAS Collaboration, Reconstruction of primary vertices at the
ATLAS experiment in Run 1 proton–proton collisions at the
LHC. Eur. Phys. J. C77, 332 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/
s10052-017-4887-5 . arXiv:1611.10235 [hep-ex]
28. ATLAS Collaboration, Vertex reconstruction performance of the
ATLAS detector at √
s = 13 TeV. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-026
(2015). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2037717
29. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet reconstruction and performance using
particle ﬂow with the ATLAS Detector. Eur. Phys. J. C
77, 466 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-017-5031-2 .
arXiv:1703.10485 [hep-ex]
30. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The anti-k
t jet clustering algo-
rithm. JHEP 04, 063 (2008). https://doi.org/10.1088/1126-6708/
2008/04/063. arXiv:0802.1189 [hep-ph]
31. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, FastJet user manual.
Eur. Phys. J. C 72, 1896 (2012). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/
s10052-012-1896-2 . arXiv:1111.6097 [hep-ph]
32. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy scale and resolution measured
in proton–proton collisions at √ s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS
detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 81, 689 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1140/
epjc/s10052-021-09402-3 . arXiv:2007.02645 [hep-ex]
33. ATLAS Collaboration, Tagging and suppression of pileup jets with
the ATLAS detector. ATLAS-CONF-2014-018 (2014).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1700870
34. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The catchment area of jets.
JHEP 04, 005 (2008). https://doi.org/10.1088/1126-6708/2008/
04/005. arXiv:0802.1188 [hep-ph]
35. ATLAS Collaboration, Optimisation and performance studies of
the ATLAS b-tagging algorithms for the 2017-18 LHC run. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2017-013 (2017).https://cds.cern.ch/record/2273281
36. ATLAS Collaboration, Identiﬁcation of jets containing b-hadrons
with recurrent neural networks at the ATLAS experiment. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2017-003 (2017).https://cds.cern.ch/record/2255226
37. A. Graves, Supervised sequence labelling with recurrent neural
networks. Stud. Comput. Intell. 385, 15–35 (2012)
38. ATLAS Collaboration, Secondary vertex ﬁnding for jet ﬂavour
identiﬁcation with the ATLAS detector. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2017-
011 (2017). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2270366
39. ATLAS Collaboration, Topological b-hadron decay reconstruc-
tion and identiﬁcation of b-jets with the JetFitter package in
the ATLAS experiment at the LHC. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2018-025
(2018). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2645405
40. R. Fruhwirth, Application of Kalman ﬁltering to track and vertex
ﬁtting. Nucl. Instrum. Methods A262, 444 (1987). https://doi.org/
10.1016/0168-9002(87)90887-4
41. I.H. Witten, E. Frank, M.A. Hall, C.J. Pal, Deep learning, chap
10. in Data Mining, 4th edn. (2017). https://doi.org/10.1016/
B978-0-12-804291-5.00010-6
42. F. Chollet et al., Keras (2015). https://keras.io
43. D.P. Kingma, J. Ba, Adam: a method for stochastic optimization.
in 3rd International Conference for Learning Representations(San
Diego, 2015). arXiv:1412.6980 [cs.SC]
44. S. Ioffe, C. Szegedy, Batch normalization: accelerating deep net-
work training by reducing internal covariate shift. in 32nd Inter-
national Conference on Machine Learning (Lille, France, 2015).
arXiv:1502.03167 [cs.LG]
45. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of VH , H → b¯b pro-
duction as a function of the vector-boson transverse momen-
tum in 13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector.
JHEP 05, 141 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP05(2019)141.
arXiv:1903.04618 [hep-ex]
46. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of Higgs boson decay into
b-quarks in associated production with a top-quark pair in
pp collisions at √
s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector.
JHEP 06, 097 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/JHEP06(2022)097.
arXiv:2111.06712 [hep-ex]
47. ATLAS Collaboration, Search for new resonances in mass distri-
butions of jet pairs using 139 fb−1 of pp collisions at√ s = 13 TeV
with the ATLAS detector. JHEP03, 145 (2020).https://doi.org/10.
1007/JHEP03(2020)145. arXiv:1910.08447 [hep-ex]
48. ATLAS Collaboration, Track reconstruction performance of the
ATLAS inner detector at √ s = 13 TeV. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-
018 (2015). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2037683
49. ATLAS Collaboration, Direct constraint on the Higgs-charm cou-
pling from a search for Higgs boson decays into charm quarks with
the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C82, 717 (2022).https://doi.org/
10.1140/epjc/s10052-022-10588-3 . arXiv:2201.11428 [hep-ex]
50. J. Bellm et al., Herwig 7.1 release note (2017). arXiv:1705.06919
[hep-ph]
51. E. Bothmann et al., Event generation with Sherpa 2.2. SciPost
Phys. 7, 034 (2019). https://doi.org/10.21468/SciPostPhys.7.3.
034. arXiv:1905.09127 [hep-ph]
52. ATLAS Collaboration, Monte Carlo to Monte Carlo scale factors
for ﬂavour tagging efﬁciency calibration. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2020-
009 (2020). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2718610
53. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the c-jet mistagging
efﬁciency in t ¯t events using pp collision data at √
s =
13 TeV collected with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C
82, 95 (2021).https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-021-09843-w .
arXiv:2109.10627 [hep-ex]
54. ATLAS Collaboration, Calibration of the b-tagging efﬁciency on
charm jets using a sample of W + c events with √ s = 13 TeV
ATLAS data. ATLAS-CONF-2018-055 (2018). https://cds.cern.
ch/record/2652195
55. ATLAS Collaboration, Calibration of the ATLAS b-tagging algo-
rithm in t ¯t semileptonic events. ATLAS-CONF-2018-045 (2018).
https://cds.cern.ch/record/2638455
56. ATLAS Collaboration, Calibration of light-ﬂavour b-jet mistag-
ging rates using ATLAS proton–proton collision data at √ s =
13 TeV. ATLAS-CONF-2018-006 (2018). https://cds.cern.ch/
record/2314418
57. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS computing acknowledgements.
ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-003 (2021). https://cds.cern.ch/record/
2776662
123

===== PAGE 24 =====
681 Page 24 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
G. Aad102 , B. Abbott 120 , D. C. Abbott 103 , K. Abeling 55 , S. H. Abidi 29 , A. Aboulhorma 35e ,
H. Abramowicz151 , H. Abreu 150 , Y . Abulaiti 117 , A. C. Abusleme Hoffman 137a , B. S. Acharya 69a,69b,q ,
C. Adam Bourdarios4 , L. Adamczyk 85a , L. Adamek 155 , S. V . Addepalli26 , J. Adelman 115 , A. Adiguzel 21c ,
S. Adorni56 , T. Adye134 , A. A. Affolder136 ,Y .A ﬁ k36 ,M .N .A g a r a s13 ,J .A g a r w a l a73a,73b , A. Aggarwal100 ,
C. Agheorghiesei27c , J. A. Aguilar-Saavedra130f , A. Ahmad36 , F. Ahmadov38,aa ,W .S .A h m e d104 , S. Ahuja95 ,
X. Ai48 , G. Aielli 76a,76b , M. Ait Tamlihat 35e , B. Aitbenchikh 35a , I. Aizenberg 169 , M. Akbiyik 100 ,
T. P. A. Åkesson98 ,A . V . A k i m o v37 , K. Al Khoury 41 , G. L. Alberghi 23b , J. Albert 165 , P. Albicocco 53 ,
S. Alderweireldt52 , M. Aleksa 36 , I. N. Aleksandrov 38 ,C . A l e x a27b , T. Alexopoulos 10 , A. Alfonsi 114 ,
F. Alfonsi23b , M. Alhroob 120 ,B . A l i 132 ,S . A l i 148 , M. Aliev 37 , G. Alimonti 71a , W. Alkakhi 55 ,
C. Allaire66 , B .M .M .A l l b r o o k e146 , C. A. Allendes Flores 137f , P. P. Allport 20 , A. Aloisio 72a,72b ,
F. Alonso90 , C. Alpigiani138 , M. Alvarez Estevez99 , M. G. Alviggi72a,72b ,M .A l y101 , Y . Amaral Coutinho82b ,
A. Ambler104 , C. Amelung 36, M. Amerl 1 , C. G. Ames 109 , D. Amidei 106 , S. P. Amor Dos Santos 130a ,
K. R. Amos163 , V . Ananiev 125 , C. Anastopoulos 139 , T. Andeen 11 , J. K. Anders 36 , S. Y . Andrean 47a,47b ,
A. Andreazza71a,71b , S. Angelidakis 9 , A. Angerami 41,ac , A. V . Anisenkov 37 , A. Annovi 74a , C. Antel 56 ,
M. T. Anthony139 , E. Antipov 121 , M. Antonelli 53 ,D . J . A . A n t r i m17a , F. Anulli 75a , M. Aoki 83 ,
T. Aoki153 , J. A. Aparisi Pozo 163 , M. A. Aparo 146 , L. Aperio Bella 48 , C. Appelt 18 , N. Aranzabal 36 ,
V . Araujo Ferraz82a , C. Arcangeletti 53 , A .T .H .A r c e51 , E. Arena 92 , J.-F. Arguin 108 , S. Argyropoulos 54 ,
J.-H. Arling48 , A .J .A r m b r u s t e r36 , O. Arnaez 155 , H. Arnold 114 , Z. P. Arrubarrena Tame 109, G. Artoni 75a,75b ,
H. Asada111 ,K . A s a i118 ,S . A s a i153 , N. A. Asbah 61 , J. Assahsah 35d , K. Assamagan 29 , R. Astalos 28a ,
R. J. Atkin33a , M. Atkinson 162, N .B .A t l a y 18 , H. Atmani 62b, P. A. Atmasiddha 106 , K. Augsten 132 ,
S. Auricchio72a,72b ,A . D . A u r i o l20 , V . A. Austrup 171 , G. Avner 150 , G. Avolio 36 , K. Axiotis 56 ,
M. K. Ayoub14c , G. Azuelos 108,af , D. Babal 28a , H. Bachacou 135 , K. Bachas 152,s , A. Bachiu 34 ,
F. Backman47a,47b , A. Badea 61 , P. Bagnaia 75a,75b , M. Bahmani 18 , A. J. Bailey 163 , V . R. Bailey 162 ,
J. T. Baines134 , C. Bakalis 10 , O .K .B a k e r 172 , P. J. Bakker 114 , E. Bakos 15 , D. Bakshi Gupta 8 ,
S. Balaji147 , R. Balasubramanian 114 , E .M .B a l d i n37 , P. Balek 133 , E. Ballabene 71a,71b ,F . B a l l i135 ,
L. M. Baltes63a , W. K. Balunas 32 ,J . B a l z100 , E. Banas 86 , M. Bandieramonte 129 , A. Bandyopadhyay 24 ,
S. Bansal24 , L. Barak 151 , E. L. Barberio 105 , D. Barberis 57a,57b , M. Barbero 102 , G. Barbour 96,
K. N. Barends33a , T. Barillari 110 , M.-S. Barisits 36 , T. Barklow 143 , R. M. Barnett 17a , P. Baron 122 ,
D. A. Baron Moreno101 , A. Baroncelli 62a , G. Barone 29 , A .J .B a r r 126 , L. Barranco Navarro 47a,47b ,
F. Barreiro99 , J. Barreiro Guimarães da Costa 14a , U. Barron 151 , M. G. Barros Teixeira 130a ,S . B a r s o v37 ,
F. Bartels63a , R. Bartoldus 143 , A .E .B a r t o n91 ,P . B a r t o s28a , A. Basalaev 48 , A. Basan 100 , M. Baselga 49 ,
I. Bashta77a,77b , A. Bassalat 66,b , M .J .B a s s o 155 , C. R. Basson 101 , R. L. Bates 59 , S. Batlamous 35e,
J. R. Batley32 , B. Batool 141 , M. Battaglia 136 , D. Battulga 18 , M. Bauce 75a,75b , P. Bauer 24 , A. Bayirli 21a ,
J. B. Beacham51 , T. Beau127 , P. H. Beauchemin158 , F. Becherer54 , P. Bechtle24 , H. P. Beck19,r , K. Becker167 ,
A. J. Beddall21d , V . A. Bednyakov 38 ,C . P . B e e145 , L. J. Beemster 15, T. A. Beermann 36 , M. Begalli 82d ,
M. Begel29 , A. Behera 145 , J. K. Behr 48 , C .B e i r a oD aC r u zES i l v a36 ,J . F . B e i r e r36,55 , F. Beisiegel 24 ,
M. Belfkir159 , G. Bella151 , L. Bellagamba23b , A. Bellerive34 , P. Bellos20 , K. Beloborodov37 , K. Belotskiy37 ,
N. L. Belyaev37 , D. Benchekroun 35a , F. Bendebba 35a , Y . Benhammou151 , D. P. Benjamin 29 , M. Benoit 29 ,
J. R. Bensinger26 , S. Bentvelsen 114 , L. Beresford 36 , M. Beretta 53 , E. Bergeaas Kuutmann 161 , N. Berger 4 ,
B. Bergmann132 , J. Beringer 17a , S. Berlendis 7 , G. Bernardi 5 , C. Bernius 143 , F. U. Bernlochner 24 ,
T. Berry95 ,P . B e r t a133 , A. Berthold 50 , I. A. Bertram 91 , S. Bethke 110 , A. Betti 75a,75b , A .J .B e v a n94 ,
M. Bhamjee33c , S. Bhatta 145 , D. S. Bhattacharya 166 , P. Bhattarai 26 , V . S. Bhopatkar 121 ,R . B i 29,ai,
R. M. Bianchi129 , O. Biebel 109 , R. Bielski 123 , M. Biglietti 77a , T .R .V .B i l l o u d132 , M. Bindi 55 ,
A. Bingul21b ,C . B i n i 75a,75b , A. Biondini 92 , C. J. Birch-sykes 101 ,G . A . B i r d20,134 ,M . B i r m a n169 ,
M. Biros133 , T. Bisanz 36 , E. Bisceglie 43a,43b ,D . B i s w a s170,m , A. Bitadze 101 ,K . B j ø r k e125 , I. Bloch 48 ,
C. Blocker26 ,A . B l u e59 , U. Blumenschein 94 , J. Blumenthal 100 , G. J. Bobbink 114 , V . S. Bobrovnikov 37 ,
M. Boehler54 , D. Bogavac 36 , A. G. Bogdanchikov 37 , C. Bohm 47a , V . Boisvert95 , P. Bokan 48 ,T . B o l d85a ,
M. Bomben5 , M. Bona 94 , M. Boonekamp 135 , C. D. Booth 95 , A. G. Borbély 59 , H. M. Borecka-Bielska 108 ,
L. S. Borgna96 , G. Borissov 91 , D. Bortoletto 126 , D. Boscherini 23b ,M . B o s m a n13 , J .D .B o s s i oS o l a36 ,
K. Bouaouda35a , N. Bouchhar163 , J. Boudreau129 , E. V . Bouhova-Thacker91 , D. Boumediene40 , R. Bouquet5 ,
A. Boveia119 ,J . B o y d36 ,D . B o y e29 , I .R .B o y k o38 , J. Bracinik 20 , N. Brahimi 62d , G. Brandt 171 ,
123

===== PAGE 25 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 25 of 37 681
O. Brandt32 ,F . B r a r e n48 ,B . B r a u103 , J .E .B r a u123 , K. Brendlinger 48 , R. Brener 169 , L. Brenner 114 ,
R. Brenner161 , S. Bressler169 , D. Britton59 , D. Britzger110 , I. Brock24 , G. Brooijmans41 , W. K. Brooks137f ,
E. Brost29 , T. L. Bruckler 126 , P. A. Bruckman de Renstrom 86 , B. Brüers 48 , D. Bruncko 28b,* , A. Bruni 23b ,
G. Bruni23b , M. Bruschi23b ,N .B r u s c i n o75a,75b , T. Buanes16 , Q. Buat138 , P. Buchholz141 , A. G. Buckley59 ,
I. A. Budagov38,* , M. K. Bugge 125 , O. Bulekov 37 , B. A. Bullard 143 , S. Burdin 92 ,C . D . B u r g a r d49 ,
A. M. Burger40 , B. Burghgrave 8 , J .T .P .B u r r32 ,C . D . B u r t o n11 , J. C. Burzynski 142 , E. L. Busch 41 ,
V . Büscher100 , P .J .B u s s e y59 , J .M .B u t l e r25 , C. M. Buttar 59 , J. M. Butterworth 96 , W. Buttinger 134 ,
C. J. Buxo Vazquez107, A. R. Buzykaev 37 , G. Cabras 23b , S. Cabrera Urbán 163 , D. Caforio 58 ,H . C a i 129 ,
Y. C a i14a,14d , V .M .M .C a i r o36 , O. Cakir 3a , N. Calace 36 , P. Calaﬁura 17a , G. Calderini 127 , P. Calfayan 68 ,
G. Callea59 , L. P. Caloba82b,D .C a l v e t40 ,S .C a l v e t40 ,T .P .C a l v e t102 , M. Calvetti74a,74b , R. Camacho Toro127 ,
S. Camarda36 , D. Camarero Munoz 26 , P. Camarri 76a,76b , M. T. Camerlingo 72a,72b , D. Cameron 125 ,
C. Camincher165 , M. Campanelli 96 , A. Camplani 42 , V . Canale 72a,72b , A. Canesse 104 , M. Cano Bret 80 ,
J. Cantero163 ,Y . C a o 162 , F. Capocasa 26 , M. Capua 43a,43b , A. Carbone 71a,71b , R. Cardarelli 76a ,
J. C. J. Cardenas8 , F. Cardillo 163 ,T . C a r l i 36 , G. Carlino 72a , J. I. Carlotto 13 , B. T. Carlson 129,t ,
E. M. Carlson156a,165 , L. Carminati 71a,71b , M. Carnesale 75a,75b , S. Caron 113 , E. Carquin 137f ,S . C a r r á71a,71b ,
G. Carratta23a,23b , F. Carrio Argos 33g ,J . W . S . C a r t e r155 ,T . M . C a r t e r52 , M. P. Casado 13,j , A. F. Casha 155,
E. G. Castiglia172 , F. L. Castillo 63a , L. Castillo Garcia 13 , V . Castillo Gimenez 163 ,N . F . C a s t r o130a,130e ,
A. Catinaccio36 ,J . R . C a t m o r e125 , V . Cavaliere 29 , N. Cavalli 23a,23b , V . Cavasinni 74a,74b , E. Celebi 21a ,
F. Celli126 , M. S. Centonze 70a,70b ,K . C e r n y122 , A. S. Cerqueira 82a , A. Cerri 146 , L. Cerrito 76a,76b ,
F. Cerutti17a , A. Cervelli 23b , S .A .C e t i n21d , Z. Chadi 35a , D. Chakraborty 115 , M. Chala 130f , J. Chan 170 ,
W. Y . Chan153 , J. D. Chapman 32 , B. Chargeishvili 149b , D. G. Charlton 20 , T. P. Charman94 , M. Chatterjee 19 ,
S. Chekanov6 , S. V . Chekulaev156a , G. A. Chelkov 38,a , A. Chen 106 , B. Chen 151 , B. Chen 165 , H. Chen 14c ,
H. Chen29 , J. Chen 62c , J. Chen 142 , S. Chen 153 , S .J .C h e n14c , X. Chen 62c , X. Chen 14b,ae , Y . Chen62a ,
C. L. Cheng170 , H. C. Cheng 64a , S. Cheong 143 , A. Cheplakov 38 , E. Cheremushkina 48 , E. Cherepanova 114 ,
R. Cherkaoui El Moursli35e , E. Cheu 7 , K. Cheung 65 , L. Chevalier 135 , V . Chiarella 53 , G. Chiarelli 74a ,
N. Chiedde102 , G. Chiodini 70a , A. S. Chisholm 20 , A. Chitan 27b , M. Chitishvili 163 , Y .H .C h i u 165 ,
M. V . Chizhov38 , K. Choi 11 , A. R. Chomont 75a,75b , Y . Chou 103 , E .Y .S .C h o w114 , T. Chowdhury 33g ,
L. D. Christopher33g ,K . L . C h u 64a, M .C .C h u 64a ,X . C h u 14a,14d , J. Chudoba 131 , J. J. Chwastowski 86 ,
D. Cieri110 , K .M .C i e s l a85a , V . Cindro93 , A. Ciocio 17a , F. Cirotto72a,72b , Z. H. Citron 169,n , M. Citterio 71a ,
D. A. Ciubotaru27b, B. M. Ciungu 155 ,A . C l a r k56 , P .J .C l a r k52 , J. M. Clavijo Columbie 48 ,S . E . C l a w s o n101 ,
C. Clement47a,47b ,J . C l e r c x48 , L. Clissa 23a,23b , Y . Coadou 102 , M. Cobal 69a,69c , A. Coccaro 57b ,
R. F. Coelho Barrue130a , R. Coelho Lopes De Sa 103 , S. Coelli 71a , H. Cohen 151 , A .E .C .C o i m b r a71a,71b ,
B. Cole41 , J. Collot 60 , P. Conde Muiño 130a,130g , M. P. Connell 33c , S. H. Connell 33c , I. A. Connelly 59 ,
E. I. Conroy126 , F. Conventi 72a,ag , H .G .C o o k e20 , A. M. Cooper-Sarkar 126 , F. Cormier 164 , L. D. Corpe 36 ,
M. Corradi75a,75b , E. E. Corrigan 98 , F. Corriveau 104,y , A. Cortes-Gonzalez 18 , M .J .C o s t a163 , F. Costanza 4 ,
D. Costanzo139 ,B . M . C o t e119 ,G . C o w a n95 , J .W .C o w l e y32 , K. Cranmer 117 , S. Crépé-Renaudin 60 ,
F. Crescioli127 , M. Cristinziani 141 , M. Cristoforetti 78a,78b,d ,V . C r o f t158 , G. Crosetti 43a,43b , A. Cueto 36 ,
T. Cuhadar Donszelmann160 ,H .C u i14a,14d ,Z .C u i7 , W. R. Cunningham59 , F. Curcio43a,43b , P. Czodrowski36 ,
M. M. Czurylo63b , M. J. Da Cunha Sargedas De Sousa 62a , J. V . Da Fonseca Pinto 82b ,C . D a V i a 101 ,
W. Dabrowski85a , T. Dado 49 , S. Dahbi 33g ,T . D a i106 , C. Dallapiccola 103 ,M . D a m 42 ,G . D ’ a m e n29 ,
V . D’Amico109 ,J . D a m p100 , J. R. Dandoy 128 , M. F. Daneri 30 , M. Danninger 142 ,V . D a o36 , G. Darbo 57b ,
S. Darmora6 ,S . J . D a s 29,ai ,S . D ’ A u r i a71a,71b ,C . D a v i d 156b , T. Davidek 133 ,D . R . D a v i s 51 ,
B. Davis-Purcell34 ,I . D a w s o n94 ,K . D e 8 , R. De Asmundis 72a , M. De Beurs 114 ,N . D e B i a s e48 ,
S. De Castro23a,23b , N. De Groot 113 , P. de Jong 114 ,H . D e l a T o r r e107 ,A . D e M a r i a14c , A. De Salvo 75a ,
U. De Sanctis76a,76b , A. De Santo 146 , J .B .D eV i v i eD eR e g i e60 , D. V . Dedovich 38, J. Degens 114 ,
A. M. Deiana44 ,F . D e l C o r s o23a,23b , J. Del Peso 99 ,F . D e l R i o63a , F. Deliot 135 , C. M. Delitzsch 49 ,
M. Della Pietra72a,72b , D. Della V olpe56 , A. Dell’Acqua36 , L. Dell’Asta71a,71b ,M .D e l m a s t r o4 , P. A. Delsart60 ,
S. Demers172 , M. Demichev38 , S. P. Denisov37 ,L .D ’ E r a m o115 , D. Derendarz86 , F. Derue127 ,P .D e r v a n92 ,
K. Desch24 , K. Dette 155 , C. Deutsch 24 , F .A .D iB e l l o57a,57b , A. Di Ciaccio 76a,76b , L. Di Ciaccio 4 ,
A. Di Domenico75a,75b , C. Di Donato 72a,72b , A. Di Girolamo 36 , G .D iG r e g o r i o5 , A .D iL u c a 78a,78b ,
B. Di Micco77a,77b ,R .D iN a r d o77a,77b , C. Diaconu102 ,F .A .D i a s114 ,T .D i a sD oV a l e142 ,M .A .D i a z137a,137b ,
F. G. Diaz Capriles24 , M. Didenko 163 , E. B. Diehl 106 , L. Diehl 54 , S. Díez Cornell 48 , C. Diez Pardos 141 ,
C. Dimitriadi24,161 , A. Dimitrievska 17a , J. Dingfelder 24 ,I . - M . D i n u27b , S. J. Dittmeier 63b , F. Dittus 36 ,
123

===== PAGE 26 =====
681 Page 26 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
F. Djama102 , T. Djobava 149b , J. I. Djuvsland 16 , C. Doglioni 101,98 , J. Dolejsi 133 , Z. Dolezal 133 ,
M. Donadelli82c , B. Dong107 , J. Donini40 , A. D’Onofrio77a,77b , M. D’Onofrio92 , J. Dopke134 ,A .D o r i a72a ,
M. T. Dova90 , A .T .D o y l e59 , M. A. Draguet 126 , E. Drechsler 142 , E. Dreyer 169 , I. Drivas-koulouris 10 ,
A. S. Drobac158 , M. Drozdova 56 ,D . D u 62a ,T . A . d u P r e e114 , F. Dubinin 37 , M. Dubovsky 28a ,
E. Duchovni169 , G. Duckeck 109 , O. A. Ducu 27b , D. Duda 110 , A. Dudarev 36 , M. D’ufﬁzi 101 , L. Duﬂot 66 ,
M. Dührssen36 ,C . D ü l s e n171 , A. E. Dumitriu 27b , M. Dunford 63a , S. Dungs 49 , K. Dunne 47a,47b ,
A. Duperrin102 , H. Duran Yildiz 3a , M. Düren 58 , A. Durglishvili 149b , B. L. Dwyer 115 , G. I. Dyckes 17a ,
M. Dyndal85a , S. Dysch 101 , B. S. Dziedzic 86 , Z. O. Earnshaw 146 , B. Eckerova 28a , S. Eggebrecht 55 ,
M. G. Eggleston51, E. Egidio Purcino De Souza 127 ,L . F . E h r k e56 , G. Eigen 16 , K. Einsweiler 17a ,T . E k e l o f161 ,
P. A. Ekman98 , Y . El Ghazali35b , H. El Jarrari 35e,148 , A. El Moussaouy 35a , V . Ellajosyula161 , M. Ellert 161 ,
F. Ellinghaus171 , A. A. Elliot94 , N. Ellis36 , J. Elmsheuser29 , M. Elsing36 , D. Emeliyanov134 ,A .E m e r m a n41 ,
Y . Enari153 ,I . E n e 17a , S. Epari 13 , J. Erdmann 49,ad , A. Ereditato 19 , P. A. Erland 86 , M. Errenst 171 ,
M. Escalier66 , C. Escobar 163 , E. Etzion 151 , G. Evans 130a , H. Evans 68 , M .O .E v a n s146 , A. Ezhilov 37 ,
S. Ezzarqtouni35a , F. Fabbri 59 , L. Fabbri 23a,23b , G. Facini 96 , V . Fadeyev 136 , R. M. Fakhrutdinov 37 ,
S. Falciano75a , L. F. Falda Ulhoa Coelho 36 ,P . J . F a l k e24 ,S . F a l k e 36 , J. Faltova 133 ,Y . F a n 14a ,
Y . Fang14a,14d , G. Fanourakis 46 , M. Fanti 71a,71b , M. Faraj 69a,69b , Z. Farazpay 97, A. Farbin 8 , A. Farilla 77a ,
T. Farooque107 , S. M. Farrington52 , F. Fassi35e , D. Fassouliotis9 , M. Faucci Giannelli76a,76b ,W .J .F a w c e t t32 ,
L. Fayard66 , P. Federicova 131 , O. L. Fedin 37,a , G. Fedotov 37 , M. Feickert 170 , L. Feligioni 102 , A. Fell 139 ,
D. E. Fellers123 , C. Feng 62b , M. Feng 14b , Z. Feng 114 , M. J. Fenton 160 , A. B. Fenyuk 37, L. Ferencz 48 ,
R. A. M. Ferguson91 , J. Ferrando 48 , A. Ferrari 161 , P. Ferrari 113,114 , R. Ferrari 73a , D. Ferrere 56 ,
C. Ferretti106 , F. Fiedler 100 , A. Filipˇ ciˇc93 , E .K .F i l m e r1 , F. Filthaut 113 , M .C .N .F i o l h a i s130a,130c,c ,
L. Fiorini163 , F. Fischer141,ak , W .C .F i s h e r107 , T. Fitschen 101 , I. Fleck 141 , P. Fleischmann106 , T. Flick 171 ,
L. Flores128 ,M . F l o r e s33d,ak , L. R. Flores Castillo 64a , F. M. Follega 78a,78b ,N . F o m i n16 ,J . H . F o o155 ,
B. C. Forland68, A. Formica 135 , A .C .F o r t i101 , E. Fortin 102 , A. W. Fortman61 , M .G .F o t i17a , L. Fountas 9,k ,
D. Fournier66 ,H . F o x91 , P. Francavilla 74a,74b , S. Francescato 61 , S. Franchellucci 56 , M. Franchini 23a,23b ,
S. Franchino63a , D. Francis 36, L. Franco 113 , L. Franconi 19 , M. Franklin 61 , G. Frattari 26 ,A . C . F r e e g a r d94 ,
P. M. Freeman20, W. S. Freund 82b , N. Fritzsche 50 , A. Froch 54 , D. Froidevaux 36 , J. A. Frost 126 ,
Y. F u62a , M. Fujimoto 118 , E. Fullana Torregrosa 163,* , J. Fuster 163 , A. Gabrielli 23a,23b , A. Gabrielli 155 ,
P. Gadow48 , G. Gagliardi 57a,57b , L. G. Gagnon 17a , G. E. Gallardo 126 , E. J. Gallas 126 , B. J. Gallop 134 ,
R. Gamboa Goni94 ,K . K . G a n 119 , S. Ganguly 153 ,J . G a o 62a ,Y . G a o 52 , F. M. Garay Walls 137a,137b ,
B. Garcia29,ai, C. García 163 , J. E. García Navarro 163 , M. Garcia-Sciveres 17a , R. W. Gardner 39 ,D . G a r g80 ,
R. B. Garg143,al , C. A. Garner 155, V . Garonne 29 , S .J .G a s i o r o w s k i138 , P. Gaspar 82b , G. Gaudio 73a ,
V . Gautam13, P. Gauzzi75a,75b , I .L .G a v r i l e n k o37 , A. Gavrilyuk 37 ,C . G a y164 , G. Gaycken 48 , E. N. Gazis 10 ,
A. A. Geanta27b,27e ,C . M . G e e 136 ,J . G e i s e n98 , C. Gemme 57b , M. H. Genest 60 , S. Gentile 75a,75b ,
S. George95 , W. F. George20 , T. Geralis46 , L. O. Gerlach 55, P. Gessinger-Befurt36 , M. Ghasemi Bostanabad 165 ,
M. Ghneimat141 , K. Ghorbanian94 , A. Ghosal141 , A. Ghosh160 , A. Ghosh7 , B. Giacobbe23b , S. Giagu75a,75b ,
P. Giannetti74a , A. Giannini62a ,S .M .G i b s o n95 , M. Gignac136 ,D .T .G i l85b , A. K. Gilbert85a ,B .J .G i l b e r t41 ,
D. Gillberg34 , G. Gilles 114 , N. E. K. Gillwald 48 , L. Ginabat 127 , D .M .G i n g r i c h2,af , M. P. Giordani 69a,69c ,
P. F. Giraud135 , G. Giugliarelli69a,69c , D. Giugni71a , F. Giuli36 , I. Gkialas9,k , L. K. Gladilin37 ,C .G l a s m a n99 ,
G. R. Gledhill123 , M. Glisic 123, I. Gnesi 43b,g ,Y . G o 29,ai , M. Goblirsch-Kolb 26 , B. Gocke 49 , D. Godin 108,
B. Gokturk21a , S. Goldfarb 105 , T. Golling 56 , M .G .D .G o l o l o33g, D. Golubkov 37 , J. P. Gombas 107 ,
A. Gomes130a,130b , G. Gomes Da Silva141 , A. J. Gomez Delegido163 , R. Goncalves Gama55 , R. Gonçalo130a,130c ,
G. Gonella123 , L. Gonella 20 , A. Gongadze 38 , F. Gonnella 20 , J. L. Gonski 41 , R. Y . González Andana 52 ,
S. González de la Hoz163 , S. Gonzalez Fernandez 13 , R. Gonzalez Lopez 92 , C. Gonzalez Renteria 17a ,
R. Gonzalez Suarez161 , S. Gonzalez-Sevilla 56 , G. R. Gonzalvo Rodriguez 163 , L. Goossens 36 , N .A .G o r a s i a20 ,
P. A. Gorbounov37 ,B . G o r i n i36 ,E . G o r i n i70a,70b , A. Gorišek 93 , A. T. Goshaw 51 , M. I. Gostkin 38 ,
C. A. Gottardo36 , M. Gouighri 35b , V . Goumarre 48 , A. G. Goussiou 138 , N. Govender 33c ,C . G o y 4 ,
I. Grabowska-Bold85a , K. Graham 34 ,E . G r a m s t a d125 , S. Grancagnolo 18 , M. Grandi 146 , V . Gratchev 37,*,
P. M. Gravila27f , F. G. Gravili 70a,70b ,H . M . G r a y17a , M. Greco 70a,70b ,C . G r e f e24 , I .M .G r e g o r48 ,
P. Grenier143 , C. Grieco 13 , A. A. Grillo 136 ,K . G r i m m31,o , S. Grinstein 13,v ,J . - F . G r i v a z66 ,E . G r o s s169 ,
J. Grosse-Knetter55 ,C . G r u d106, A. Grummer 112 , J. C. Grundy 126 , L. Guan 106 , W. Guan170 , C. Gubbels 164 ,
J. G. R. Guerrero Rojas163 , G. Guerrieri 69a,69b , F. Guescini 110 , D. Guest 18 , R. Gugel 100 , J. A. M. Guhit 106 ,
A. Guida48 , T. Guillemin 4 , E. Guilloton 134,167 , S. Guindon 36 ,F . G u o 14a,14d ,J . G u o 62c ,L . G u o 66 ,
123

===== PAGE 27 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 27 of 37 681
Y. G u o106 , R. Gupta 48 ,S . G u r b u z24 , S. S. Gurdasani 54 , G. Gustavino 36 ,M . G u t h56 , P. Gutierrez 120 ,
L. F. Gutierrez Zagazeta128 , C. Gutschow96 , C. Guyot135 , C. Gwenlan126 , C. B. Gwilliam92 , E. S. Haaland125 ,
A. Haas117 , M. Habedank 48 , C. Haber 17a , H. K. Hadavand 8 , A. Hadef 100 , S. Hadzic 110 , E. H. Haines 96 ,
M. Haleem166 ,J .H a l e y121 ,J .J .H a l l139 , G. D. Hallewell102 ,L .H a l s e r19 , K. Hamano165 , H. Hamdaoui35e ,
M. Hamer24 , G. N. Hamity 52 ,J . H a n62b ,K . H a n62a ,L . H a n14c ,L . H a n62a ,S . H a n17a ,Y . F . H a n155 ,
K. Hanagaki83 , M. Hance 136 , D. A. Hangal 41,ac , H. Hanif 142 , M .D .H a n k 39 , R. Hankache 101 ,
J. B. Hansen42 , J. D. Hansen 42 , P. H. Hansen42 ,K .H a r a157 , D. Harada56 , T. Harenberg171 , S. Harkusha37 ,
Y . T. Harris126 , N .M .H a r r i s o n119 , P. F. Harrison167, N .M .H a r t m a n143 , N. M. Hartmann 109 , Y. Hasegawa140 ,
A. Hasib52 , S. Haug19 , R. Hauser107 , M. Havranek132 ,C .M .H a w k e s20 , R. J. Hawkings36 , S. Hayashida111 ,
D. Hayden107 , C. Hayes 106 , R. L. Hayes 164 , C. P. Hays 126 , J .M .H a y s94 , H. S. Hayward 92 ,F . H e 62a ,
Y. H e154 ,Y . H e127 , M .P .H e a t h52 , V . Hedberg98 , A. L. Heggelund 125 , N. D. Hehir 94 , C. Heidegger 54 ,
K. K. Heidegger54 , W. D. Heidorn 81 , J. Heilman 34 ,S . H e i m 48 ,T . H e i m 17a , J. G. Heinlein 128 ,
J. J. Heinrich123 , L. Heinrich110,am , J. Hejbal131 , L. Helary48 ,A .H e l d170 , S. Hellesund125 , C. M. Helling164 ,
S. Hellman47a,47b , C. Helsens 36 , R. C. W. Henderson 91, L. Henkelmann 32 , A. M. Henriques Correia 36,
H. Herde98 , Y . Hernández Jiménez145 , L. M. Herrmann 24 , M .G .H e r r m a n n109 , T. Herrmann50 ,G . H e r t e n54 ,
R. Hertenberger109 ,L . H e r v a s36 , N. P. Hessey 156a ,H . H i b i84 , E. Higón-Rodriguez 163 , S. J. Hillier 20 ,
I. Hinchliffe17a , F. Hinterkeuser 24 ,M . H i r o s e124 ,S . H i r o s e157 , D. Hirschbuehl 171 , T. G. Hitchings 101 ,
B. Hiti93 , J. Hobbs145 , R. Hobincu27e ,N .H o d169 , M. C. Hodgkinson139 , B. H. Hodkinson32 , A. Hoecker36 ,
J. Hofer48 , D. Hohn 54 ,T . H o l m24 , M. Holzbock 110 , L .B .A .H .H o m m e l s32 , B. P. Honan 101 , J. Hong 62c ,
T. M. Hong129 , J. C. Honig 54 , A. Hönle 110 , B. H. Hooberman 162 , W. H. Hopkins 6 ,Y . H o r i i111 ,
S. Hou148 ,A . S . H o w a r d93 ,J . H o w a r t h59 ,J . H o y a6 , M. Hrabovsky 122 , A. Hrynevich 48 , T. Hryn’ova 4 ,
P. J. Hsu65 ,S . - C . H s u138 ,Q . H u 41 , Y .F .H u 14a,14d,ah , D. P. Huang 96 , S. Huang 64b , X. Huang 14c ,
Y . Huang62a , Y . Huang14a , Z. Huang 101 , Z. Hubacek 132 , M. Huebner 24 , F. Huegging24 , T. B. Huffman126 ,
M. Huhtinen36 , S. K. Huiberts16 , R. Hulsken104 , N. Huseynov12,a ,J .H u s t o n107 ,J .H u t h61 , R. Hyneman143 ,
S. Hyrych28a , G. Iacobucci 56 , G. Iakovidis 29 , I. Ibragimov 141 , L. Iconomidou-Fayard 66 , P. Iengo 72a,72b ,
R. Iguchi153 ,T . I i z a w a56 ,Y . I k e g a m i83 ,A . I l g19 , N. Ilic 155 ,H . I m a m35a , T. Ingebretsen Carlson 47a,47b ,
G. Introzzi73a,73b , M. Iodice77a , V . Ippolito75a,75b ,M .I s h i n o153 , W. Islam170 , C. Issever18,48 , S. Istin21a,an ,
H. Ito168 , J. M. Iturbe Ponce 64a , R. Iuppa 78a,78b , A. Ivina 169 , J .M .I z e n45 , V . Izzo72a , P. Jacka 131,132 ,
P. Jackson1 , R. M. Jacobs 48 , B. P. Jaeger 142 , C. S. Jagfeld 109 ,P . J a i n54 , G. Jäkel 171 , K. Jakobs 54 ,
T. Jakoubek169 ,J . J a m i e s o n59 , K. W. Janas 85a ,G . J a r l s k o g98 , A. E. Jaspan 92 , M. Javurkova 103 ,
F. Jeanneau135 , L. Jeanty 123 , J. Jejelava 149a,ab , P. Jenni 54,h , C .E .J e s s i m a n34 , S. Jézéquel 4 ,J . J i a145 ,
X. Jia61 ,X . J i a14a,14d ,Z . J i a14c , Y . Jiang62a, S. Jiggins 52 , J. Jimenez Pena 110 ,S . J i n14c , A. Jinaru 27b ,
O. Jinnouchi154 , P. Johansson139 , K. A. Johns 7 , J. W. Johnson 136 , D. M. Jones 32 , E. Jones 167 , P. Jones32 ,
R. W. L. Jones91 , T. J. Jones92 , R. Joshi119 , J. Jovicevic15 ,X .J u17a , J. J. Junggeburth36 , T. Junkermann63a ,
A. Juste Rozas13,v , S. Kabana 137e , A. Kaczmarska 86 , M. Kado 75a,75b , H. Kagan 119 , M. Kagan 143 ,
A. Kahn41, A. Kahn 128 , C. Kahra 100 ,T . K a j i168 , E. Kajomovitz 150 , N. Kakati 169 , C. W. Kalderon 29 ,
A. Kamenshchikov155 , S. Kanayama 154 , N .J .K a n g136 ,D . K a r 33g ,K . K a r a v a126 , M. J. Kareem 156b ,
E. Karentzos54 , I. Karkanias 152,f , S. N. Karpov 38 , Z. M. Karpova 38 , V . Kartvelishvili91 , A. N. Karyukhin 37 ,
E. Kasimi152,f ,C . K a t o62d , J. Katzy 48 , S. Kaur 34 , K. Kawade 140 , K. Kawagoe 89 , T. Kawamoto 135 ,
G. Kawamura55,E . F . K a y165 , F. I. Kaya 158 , S. Kazakos 13 , V . F. Kazanin37 ,Y . K e145 , J. M. Keaveney 33a ,
R. Keeler165 , G. V . Kehris61 , J. S. Keller 34 , A. S. Kelly 96,D . K e l s e y146 , J. J. Kempster 20 , K. E. Kennedy 41 ,
P. D. Kennedy100 , O. Kepka 131 , B. P. Kerridge 167 , S. Kersten 171 , B. P. Kerševan 93 , S. Keshri 66 ,
L. Keszeghova28a , S. Ketabchi Haghighat 155 , M. Khandoga 127 , A. Khanov 121 , A .G .K h a r l a m o v37 ,
T. Kharlamova37 , E. E. Khoda 138 , T .J .K h o o18 , G. Khoriauli 166 , J. Khubua 149b , Y .A .R .K h w a i r a66 ,
M. Kiehn36 , A. Kilgallon 123 ,D . W . K i m47a,47b ,E . K i m154 , Y .K .K i m39 ,N . K i m u r a96 , A. Kirchhoff 55 ,
D. Kirchmeier50 ,C . K i r f e l24 ,J . K i r k134 , A. E. Kiryunin 110 , T. Kishimoto 153 , D. P. Kisliuk155, C. Kitsaki 10 ,
O. Kivernyk24 , M. Klassen 63a , C. Klein 34 , L. Klein 166 , M .H .K l e i n106 , M. Klein 92 , S. B. Klein 56 ,
U. Klein92 , P. Klimek 36 , A. Klimentov 29 , F. Klimpel 110 , T. Klioutchnikova 36 , P. Kluit 114 , S. Kluth 110 ,
E. Kneringer79 , T. M. Knight 155 , A. Knue 54 , D. Kobayashi 89, R. Kobayashi 87 , M. Kocian 143 , P. Kodyš133 ,
D. M. Koeck146 , P. T. Koenig 24 ,T . K o f f a s34 ,M . K o l b135 , I. Koletsou 4 , T. Komarek 122 , K. Köneke 54 ,
A. X. Y . Kong1 , T. Kono 118 , N. Konstantinidis 96 , B. Konya 98 , R. Kopeliansky 68 , S. Koperny 85a ,
K. Korcyl86 , K. Kordas 152,f , G. Koren 151 ,A . K o r n96 ,S . K o r n55 , I. Korolkov 13 , N. Korotkova 37 ,
B. Kortman114 , O. Kortner 110 , S. Kortner 110 , W. H. Kostecka115 , V . V . Kostyukhin141 , A. Kotsokechagia 135 ,
123

===== PAGE 28 =====
681 Page 28 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
A. Kotwal51 , A. Koulouris 36 , A. Kourkoumeli-Charalampidi 73a,73b , C. Kourkoumelis 9 , E. Kourlitis 6 ,
O. Kovanda146 , R. Kowalewski165 , W. Kozanecki135 , A. S. Kozhin37 , V . A. Kramarenko37 , G. Kramberger93 ,
P. Kramer100 , M .W .K r a s n y127 , A. Krasznahorkay 36 , J .A .K r e m e r100 , T. Kresse 50 , J. Kretzschmar 92 ,
K. Kreul18 , P. Krieger155 , S. Krishnamurthy103 ,M .K r i v o s133 , K. Krizka17a , K. Kroeninger49 , H. Kroha110 ,
J. Kroll131 ,J . K r o l l128 , K .S .K r o w p m a n107 , U. Kruchonak 38 , H. Krüger 24 , N. Krumnack 81, M. C. Kruse 51 ,
J. A. Krzysiak86 , O. Kuchinskaia 37 , S. Kuday 3a , D. Kuechler 48 , J. T. Kuechler 48 , S. Kuehn 36 , T. Kuhl 48 ,
V . Kukhtin38 , Y . Kulchitsky37,a , S. Kuleshov137b,137d ,M .K u m a r33g ,N .K u m a r i102 , A. Kupco131 , T. Kupfer49,
A. Kupich37 , O. Kuprash 54 , H. Kurashige 84 , L. L. Kurchaninov 156a , Y . A. Kurochkin 37 ,A . K u r o v a37 ,
M. Kuze154 ,A .K .K v a m103 , J. Kvita122 ,T .K w a n104 ,K .W .K w o k64a , N. G. Kyriacou106 ,L .A .O .L a a t u102 ,
C. Lacasta163 , F. Lacava 75a,75b , H. Lacker 18 , D. Lacour 127 , N .N .L a d96 , E. Ladygin 38 , B. Laforge 127 ,
T. Lagouri137e ,S . L a i55 , I. K. Lakomiec 85a , N. Lalloue 60 , J. E. Lambert 120 , S. Lammers 68 , W. Lampl 7 ,
C. Lampoudis152,f , A. N. Lancaster 115 , E. Lançon 29 , U. Landgraf 54 , M. P. J. Landon 94 , V . S. Lang 54 ,
R. J. Langenberg103 , A. J. Lankford 160 , F. Lanni 36 , K. Lantzsch 24 , A. Lanza 73a , A. Lapertosa 57a,57b ,
J. F. Laporte135 ,T . L a r i 71a , F. Lasagni Manghi 23b , M. Lassnig 36 , V . Latonova 131 ,T . S . L a u 64a ,
A. Laudrain100 , A. Laurier 34 ,S . D . L a w l o r95 , Z. Lawrence 101 , M. Lazzaroni 71a,71b ,B . L e101, B. Leban 93 ,
A. Lebedev81 , M. LeBlanc 36 , T. LeCompte 6 , F. Ledroit-Guillon 60 , A .C .A .L e e96,G . R . L e e16 ,L . L e e61 ,
S. C. Lee148 ,S . L e e47a,47b ,T . F . L e e92 , L. L. Leeuw 33c , H. P. Lefebvre95 , M. Lefebvre 165 , C. Leggett 17a ,
K. Lehmann142 , G. Lehmann Miotto 36 , M. Leigh 56 , W. A. Leight 103 ,A . L e i s o s152,u , M .A .L .L e i t e82c ,
C. E. Leitgeb48 , R. Leitner133 ,K .J .C .L e n e y44 , T. Lenz24 , S. Leone74a , C. Leonidopoulos52 , A. Leopold144 ,
C. Leroy108 ,R . L e s107 , C .G .L e s t e r32 , M. Levchenko 37 , J. Levêque 4 ,D . L e v i n106 , L .J .L e v i n s o n169 ,
M. P. Lewicki86 , D .J .L e w i s4 ,A . L i 5 ,B . L i 62b ,C . L i 62a,C . - Q . L i62c ,H . L i 62a ,H . L i 62b ,H . L i 14c ,
H. Li62b ,J . L i62c ,K . L i138 ,L . L i62c ,M . L i14a,14d ,Q . Y . L i62a ,S . L i14a,14d ,S . L i62c,62d,e ,T . L i62b ,
X. Li104 ,Z .L i62b ,Z .L i126 ,Z .L i104 ,Z .L i92 ,Z .L i14a,14d , Z. Liang14a , M. Liberatore48 , B. Liberti76a ,
K. Lie64c , J. Lieber Marin 82b ,K . L i n 107 , R. A. Linck 68 , R. E. Lindley 7 , J. H. Lindon 2 ,A . L i n s s48 ,
E. Lipeles128 , A. Lipniacka 16 , A. Lister 164 , J. D. Little 4 ,B . L i u 14a , B .X .L i u 142 ,D . L i u 62c,62d ,
J. B. Liu62a , J .K .K .L i u 32 ,K . L i u 62c,62d ,M . L i u 62a ,M . Y . L i u62a ,P . L i u 14a ,Q . L i u 62c,62d,138 ,
X. Liu62a ,Y . L i u14c,14d ,Y . L . L i u106 , Y .W .L i u62a ,M . L i v a n73a,73b , J. Llorente Merino 142 ,S . L . L l o y d94 ,
E. M. Lobodzinska48 , P. Loch 7 , S. Loffredo 76a,76b , T. Lohse 18 , K. Lohwasser 139 , M. Lokajicek 131 ,
J. D. Long162 , I. Longarini 160 , L. Longo 70a,70b , R. Longo 162 , I. Lopez Paz 67 , A. Lopez Solis 48 ,
J. Lorenz109 , N. Lorenzo Martinez 4 , A .M .L o r y109 ,X . L o u47a,47b ,X . L o u14a,14d , A. Lounis 66 , J. Love 6 ,
P. A. Love91 , J. J. Lozano Bahilo 163 ,G . L u 14a,14d ,M . L u 80 ,S . L u 128 , Y .J .L u 65 , H. J. Lubatti 138 ,
C. Luci75a,75b , F. L. Lucio Alves 14c , A. Lucotte 60 , F. Luehring 68 ,I . L u i s e 145 , O. Lukianchuk 66 ,
O. Lundberg144 , B. Lund-Jensen 144 , N. A. Luongo 123 ,M . S . L u t z151 , D. Lynn 29 , H. Lyons 92, R. Lysak 131 ,
E. Lytken98 ,F . L y u14a , V . Lyubushkin38 , T. Lyubushkina 38 , M. M. Lyukova 145 ,H . M a 29 ,L . L . M a62b ,
Y. M a96 , D. M. Mac Donell 165 , G. Maccarrone 53 , J. C. MacDonald 139 , R. Madar 40 , W. F. Mader 50 ,
J. Maeda84 , T. Maeno 29 , M. Maerker 50 , H. Maguire 139 , D. J. Mahon 41 ,A . M a i o130a,130b,130d ,K . M a j85a ,
O. Majersky28a ,S . M a j e w s k i123 , N. Makovec 66 , V . Maksimovic 15 , B. Malaescu 127 , Pa. Malecki 86 ,
V. P. M a l e ev37 , F. Malek 60 , D. Malito 43a,43b , U. Mallik 80 , C. Malone 32 , S. Maltezos 10, S. Malyukov 38,
J. Mamuzic13 , G. Mancini53 , G. Manco73a,73b , J. P. Mandalia94 , I. Mandi´c93 , L. Manhaes de Andrade Filho82a ,
I. M. Maniatis169 , J. Manjarres Ramos 50 , D. C. Mankad 169 , A. Mann 109 , B. Mansoulie 135 , S. Manzoni 36 ,
A. Marantis152,u , G. Marchiori 5 , M. Marcisovsky 131 , C. Marcon 71a,71b , M. Marinescu 20 , M. Marjanovic 120 ,
E. J. Marshall91 , Z. Marshall 17a , S. Marti-Garcia 163 , T .A .M a r t i n167 , V .J .M a r t i n52 , B. Martin dit Latour 16 ,
L. Martinelli75a,75b , M. Martinez13,v , P. Martinez Agullo163 , V . I. Martinez Outschoorn103 , P. Martinez Suarez13 ,
S. Martin-Haugh134 , V . S. Martoiu27b , A. C. Martyniuk96 , A. Marzin36 , S. R. Maschek110 , D. Mascione78a,78b ,
L. Masetti100 , T. Mashimo 153 ,J . M a s i k101 , A. L. Maslennikov 37 , L. Massa 23b , P. Massarotti 72a,72b ,
P. Mastrandrea74a,74b , A. Mastroberardino 43a,43b , T. Masubuchi 153 , T. Mathisen 161 , N. Matsuzawa 153,
J. Maurer27b ,B .M a ˇcek93 , D. A. Maximov37 , R. Mazini148 , I. Maznas152,f , M. Mazza107 , S. M. Mazza 136 ,
C. Mc Ginn29 ,J . P . M c G o w a n 104 ,S . P . M c K e e 106 , E. F. McDonald 105 , A. E. McDougall 114 ,
J. A. Mcfayden146 , G. Mchedlidze 149b , R. P. Mckenzie 33g , T. C. Mclachlan 48 , D. J. Mclaughlin 96 ,
K. D. McLean165 , S. J. McMahon 134 , P. C. McNamara 105 , C. M. Mcpartland 92 , R. A. McPherson 165,y ,
T. Megy40 , S. Mehlhase 109 , A. Mehta 92 ,B . M e i r o s e45 , D. Melini 150 , B. R. Mellado Garcia 33g ,
A. H. Melo55 , F. Meloni 48 , E. D. Mendes Gouveia 130a , A. M. Mendes Jacques Da Costa 20 , H. Y . Meng 155 ,
L. Meng91 , S. Menke 110 , M. Mentink 36 , E. Meoni 43a,43b , C. Merlassino 126 , L. Merola 72a,72b ,
123

===== PAGE 29 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 29 of 37 681
C. Meroni71a ,G . M e r z 106, O. Meshkov 37 , J. Metcalfe 6 ,A . S . M e t e6 , C. Meyer 68 , J.-P. Meyer 135 ,
M. Michetti18 , R. P. Middleton 134 , L. Mijovi´ c52 , G. Mikenberg 169 , M. Mikestikova 131 , M. Mikuž 93 ,
H. Mildner139 , A. Milic36 , C. D. Milke44 , D. W. Miller39 , L. S. Miller 34 , A. Milov169 , D. A. Milstead 47a,47b,
T. Min14c, A. A. Minaenko 37 , I. A. Minashvili 149b , L. Mince 59 , A. I. Mincer 117 , B. Mindur 85a ,
M. Mineev38 ,Y . M i n o 87 , L .M .M i r 13 , M. Miralles Lopez 163 , M. Mironova 126 , M .C .M i s s i o113 ,
T. Mitani168 , A. Mitra 167 , V . A. Mitsou163 ,O . M i u155 , P. S. Miyagawa 94 , Y . Miyazaki89, A. Mizukami 83 ,
J. U. Mjörnmark98 , T. Mkrtchyan 63a , T. Mlinarevic 96 , M. Mlynarikova 36 ,T . M o a47a,47b , S. Mobius 55 ,
K. Mochizuki108 , P. Moder 48 , P. Mogg 109 , A .F .M o h a m m e d14a,14d , S. Mohapatra 41 , G. Mokgatitswane 33g ,
B. Mondal141 , S. Mondal 132 , K. Mönig 48 , E. Monnier 102 , L. Monsonis Romero 163, J. Montejo Berlingen 36 ,
M. Montella119 , F. Monticelli 90 , N. Morange 66 , A. L. Moreira De Carvalho 130a , M. Moreno Llácer 163 ,
C. Moreno Martinez56 , P. Morettini 57b , S. Morgenstern 167 ,M . M o r i i61 , M. Morinaga 153 ,A . K . M o r l e y36 ,
F. Morodei75a,75b ,L . M o r v a j36 , P. Moschovakos 36 , B. Moser 36 , M. Mosidze 149b, T. Moskalets 54 ,
P. Moskvitina113 ,J . M o s s 31,p , E .J .W .M o y s e103 , O. Mtintsilana 33g , S. Muanza 102 , J. Mueller 129 ,
D. Muenstermann91 , R. Müller 19 , G. A. Mullier 161 , J. J. Mullin 128, D. P. Mungo 155 , J. L. Munoz Martinez 13 ,
D. Munoz Perez163 , F. J. Munoz Sanchez 101 ,M . M u r i n 101 , W .J .M u r r a y134,167 , A. Murrone 71a,71b ,
J. M. Muse120 , M. Muškinja 17a ,C . M w e w a 29 , A. G. Myagkov 37,a , A .J .M y e r s 8 , A .A .M y e r s 129,
G. Myers68 , M. Myska 132 , B. P. Nachman 17a , O. Nackenhorst 49 ,A . N a g50 , K. Nagai 126 , K. Nagano 83 ,
J. L. Nagle29,ai , E. Nagy 102 , A .M .N a i r z36 , Y . Nakahama83 , K. Nakamura 83 , H. Nanjo 124 , R. Narayan 44 ,
E. A. Narayanan112 , I. Naryshkin 37 , M. Naseri 34 ,C . N a s s24 , G. Navarro 22a , J. Navarro-Gonzalez 163 ,
R. Nayak151 , A. Nayaz 18 , P. Y . Nechaeva37 , F. Nechansky 48 , L. Nedic 126 , T .J .N e e p20 ,A . N e g r i73a,73b ,
M. Negrini23b , C. Nellist113 ,C .N e l s o n104 ,K .N e l s o n106 , S. Nemecek131 , M. Nessi36,i , M. S. Neubauer162 ,
F. Neuhaus100 , J. Neundorf 48 , R. Newhouse 164 , P. R. Newman 20 , C .W .N g129 ,Y . S . N g18, Y .W .Y .N g48 ,
B. Ngair35e , H. D. N. Nguyen 108 , R. B. Nickerson 126 , R. Nicolaidou 135 , J. Nielsen 136 , M. Niemeyer 55 ,
N. Nikiforou36 , V . Nikolaenko 37,a , I. Nikolic-Audit 127 , K. Nikolopoulos 20 , P. Nilsson 29 , I. Ninca 48 ,
H. R. Nindhito56 ,A . N i s a t i75a ,N . N i s h u 2 , R. Nisius 110 , J-E. Nitschke 50 , E. K. Nkadimeng 33g ,
S. J. Noacco Rosende90 , T. Nobe 153 , D .L .N o e l32 , Y . Noguchi 87 , T. Nommensen 147 , M. A. Nomura 29,
M. B. Norfolk139 , R .R .B .N o r i s a m96 , B .J .N o r m a n34 ,J . N o v a k93 ,T . N o v a k48 , O. Novgorodova 50 ,
L. Novotny132 , R. Novotny 112 , L. Nozka 122 , K. Ntekas 160 , N. M. J. Nunes De Moura Junior 82b ,E . N u r s e96,
F. G. Oakham34,af , J. Ocariz127 , A. Ochi84 , I. Ochoa130a , S. Oerdek161 , J. T. Offermann39 , A. Ogrodnik85a ,
A. Oh101 ,C . C . O h m 144 ,H . O i d e83 ,R . O i s h i153 , M .L .O j e d a48 , Y . Okazaki 87 , M. W. O’Keefe 92,
Y . Okumura153 ,A . O l a r i u27b, L. F. Oleiro Seabra 130a , S. A. Olivares Pino 137e , D. Oliveira Damazio 29 ,
D. Oliveira Goncalves82a ,J .L .O l i v e r160 ,M .J .R .O l s s o n160 , A. Olszewski86 , J. Olszowska86,* , Ö. O. Öncel54 ,
D. C. O’Neil142 , A. P. O’Neill 19 , A. Onofre 130a,130e , P .U .E .O n y i s i11 , M. J. Oreglia 39 , G. E. Orellana 90 ,
D. Orestano77a,77b , N. Orlando 13 ,R . S . O r r 155 , V . O’Shea 59 , R. Ospanov 62a , G. Otero y Garzon 30 ,
H. Otono89 ,P . S . O t t63a , G. J. Ottino 17a , M. Ouchrif 35d , J. Ouellette 29,ai , F. Ould-Saada 125 , M. Owen 59 ,
R. E. Owen134 , K .Y .O y u l m a z21a , V . E. Ozcan21a , N. Ozturk 8 , S. Ozturk 21d , J. Pacalt 122 , H. A. Pacey 32 ,
K. Pachal51 , A. Pacheco Pages13 , C. Padilla Aranda13 , G. Padovano75a,75b , S. Pagan Griso17a , G. Palacino68 ,
A. Palazzo70a,70b , S. Palestini 36 , M. Palka 85b ,J . P a n172 ,T . P a n64a , D. K. Panchal 11 , C. E. Pandini 114 ,
J. G. Panduro Vazquez95 , H. Pang 14b , P. Pani 48 , G. Panizzo 69a,69c , L. Paolozzi 56 , C. Papadatos 108 ,
S. Parajuli44 , A. Paramonov6 , C. Paraskevopoulos10 , D. Paredes Hernandez64b ,T .H .P a r k155 ,M .A .P a r k e r32 ,
F. Parodi57a,57b ,E . W . P a r r i s h115 ,V . A . P a r r i s h52 , J. A. Parsons 41 , U. Parzefall 54 , B. Pascual Dias 108 ,
L. Pascual Dominguez151 , V . R. Pascuzzi17a , F. Pasquali114 , E. Pasqualucci75a , S. Passaggio57b ,F .P a s t o r e95 ,
P. Pasuwan47a,47b , P. Patel 86 , J .R .P a t e r101 , T. Pauly 36 , J. Pearkes 143 , M. Pedersen 125 , R. Pedro 130a ,
S. V . Peleganchuk37 , O. Penc 36 , E. A. Pender 52, C. Peng 64b , H. Peng 62a , K. E. Penski 109 , M. Penzin 37 ,
B. S. Peralva82d , A. P. Pereira Peixoto60 , L. Pereira Sanchez 47a,47b , D. V . Perepelitsa29,ai , E. Perez Codina 156a ,
M. Perganti10 , L. Perini 71a,71b,* , H. Pernegger 36 , S. Perrella 36 , A. Perrevoort 113 , O. Perrin 40 , K. Peters 48 ,
R. F. Y . Peters101 , B. A. Petersen 36 , T. C. Petersen 42 , E. Petit 102 , V . Petousis 132 , C. Petridou 152,f ,
A. Petrukhin141 , M. Pettee 17a , N .E .P e t t e r s s o n36 , A. Petukhov 37 , K. Petukhova 133 , A. Peyaud 135 ,
R. Pezoa137f , L. Pezzotti36 , G. Pezzullo172 , T. M. Pham170 , T. Pham105 , P. W. Phillips134 , M. W. Phipps162 ,
G. Piacquadio145 , E. Pianori 17a , F. Piazza 71a,71b , R. Piegaia 30 , D. Pietreanu 27b , A. D. Pilkington 101 ,
M. Pinamonti69a,69c , J. L. Pinfold 2 , B. C. Pinheiro Pereira 130a , C. Pitman Donaldson 96, D .A .P i z z i 34 ,
L. Pizzimento76a,76b , A. Pizzini 114 , M.-A. Pleier 29 , V . Plesanovs54,V .P l e s k o t133 , E. Plotnikova38, G. Poddar 4 ,
R. Poettgen98 , L. Poggioli 127 , I. Pogrebnyak 107 , D. Pohl 24 , I. Pokharel 55 , S. Polacek 133 , G. Polesello 73a ,
123

===== PAGE 30 =====
681 Page 30 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
A. Poley142,156a , R. Polifka 132 , A. Polini 23b , C. S. Pollard 167 , Z. B. Pollock 119 , V . Polychronakos 29 ,
E. Pompa Pacchi75a,75b , D. Ponomarenko 37 , L. Pontecorvo 36 , S. Popa 27a , G. A. Popeneciu 27d ,
D. M. Portillo Quintero156a , S. Pospisil 132 , P. Postolache27c , K. Potamianos 126 , I. N. Potrap 38 , C. J. Potter 32 ,
H. Potti1 , T. Poulsen 48 , J. Poveda 163 , M. E. Pozo Astigarraga 36 , A. Prades Ibanez 163 , M. M. Prapa 46 ,
J. Pretel54 ,D . P r i c e101 , M. Primavera 70a , M. A. Principe Martin 99 ,R . P r i v a r a122 ,M . L . P r o f ﬁ t t138 ,
N. Proklova128 , K. Prokoﬁev 64c ,G . P r o t o76a,76b , S. Protopopescu 29 , J. Proudfoot 6 , M. Przybycien 85a ,
J. E. Puddefoot139 , D. Pudzha 37 , P. Puzo 66, D. Pyatiizbyantseva 37 ,J . Q i a n106 , D. Qichen 101 ,Y . Q i n101 ,
T. Qiu94 , A. Quadt 55 , M. Queitsch-Maitland 101 , G. Quetant 56 , G. Rabanal Bolanos 61 , D. Rafanoharana 54 ,
F. Ragusa71a,71b , J. L. Rainbolt 39 , J .A .R a i n e 56 , S. Rajagopalan 29 , E. Ramakoti 37 ,K . R a n 48,14d ,
N. P. Rapheeha33g , V . Raskina 127 , D. F. Rassloff 63a ,S . R a v e 100 ,B . R a v i n a55 , I. Ravinovich 169 ,
M. Raymond36 , A. L. Read 125 , N. P. Readioff 139 , D. M. Rebuzzi 73a,73b , G. Redlinger 29 ,K . R e e v e s45 ,
J. A. Reidelsturz171 , D. Reikher 151 ,A . R e j141 , C. Rembser 36 , A. Renardi 48 , M. Renda 27b , M. B. Rendel 110,
F. Renner48 , A. G. Rennie 59 , S. Resconi 71a , M. Ressegotti 57a,57b , E .D .R e s s e g u i e17a ,S . R e t t i e36 ,
J. G. Reyes Rivera107 , B. Reynolds 119, E. Reynolds 17a , M. Rezaei Estabragh 171 , O. L. Rezanova 37 ,
P. Reznicek133 , N. Ribaric 91 , E. Ricci 78a,78b , R. Richter 110 , S. Richter 47a,47b , E. Richter-Was 85b ,
M. Ridel127 , S. Ridouani35d , P. Rieck117 , P. Riedler36 , M. Rijssenbeek145 , A. Rimoldi73a,73b , M. Rimoldi48 ,
L. Rinaldi23a,23b ,T . T . R i n n 29 , M. P. Rinnagel 109 , G. Ripellino 144 ,I . R i u 13 , P. Rivadeneira 48 ,
J. C. Rivera Vergara165 , F. Rizatdinova 121 , E. Rizvi 94 , C. Rizzi 56 , B. A. Roberts 167 , B. R. Roberts 17a ,
S. H. Robertson104,y , M. Robin 48 , D. Robinson 32 , C. M. Robles Gajardo 137f, M. Robles Manzano 100 ,
A. Robson59 , A. Rocchi 76a,76b , C. Roda 74a,74b , S. Rodriguez Bosca 63a , Y . Rodriguez Garcia 22a ,
A. Rodriguez Rodriguez54 , A. M. Rodríguez Vera 156b ,S . R o e 36, J. T. Roemer 160 , A. R. Roepe-Gier 120 ,
J. Roggel171 , O. Røhne 125 , R .A .R o j a s103 , B. Roland 54 , C. P. A. Roland68 , J. Roloff 29 , A. Romaniouk 37 ,
E. Romano73a,73b , M. Romano 23b , A. C. Romero Hernandez 162 , N. Rompotis 92 , L. Roos 127 , S. Rosati 75a ,
B. J. Rosser39 , E. Rossi 4 , E. Rossi 72a,72b , L. P. Rossi 57b , L. Rossini 48 ,R . R o s t e n119 , M. Rotaru 27b ,
B. Rottler54 , C. Rougier 102,ao , D. Rousseau 66 , D. Rousso 32 , G. Rovelli 73a,73b ,A . R o y162 , A. Rozanov 102 ,
Y . Rozen150 , X. Ruan 33g , A. Rubio Jimenez 163 , A .J .R u b y92 , V . H. Ruelas Rivera 18 , T. A. Ruggeri 1 ,
F. Rühr54 , A. Ruiz-Martinez 163 , A. Rummler 36 ,Z . R u r i k o v a54 , N .A .R u s a k o v i c h38 , H .L .R u s s e l l165 ,
J. P. Rutherfoord7 , K. Rybacki 91, M. Rybar 133 , E .B .R y e 125 , A. Ryzhov 37 , J. A. Sabater Iglesias 56 ,
P. Sabatini163 , L. Sabetta 75a,75b , H. F.-W. Sadrozinski 136 , F. Safai Tehrani 75a , B. Safarzadeh Samani 146 ,
M. Safdari143 , S. Saha 104 , M. Sahinsoy 110 , M. Saimpert 135 , M. Saito 153 , T. Saito 153 , D. Salamani 36 ,
G. Salamanna77a,77b , A. Salnikov 143 , J. Salt 163 , A. Salvador Salas 13 , D. Salvatore 43a,43b , F. Salvatore 146 ,
A. Salzburger36 , D. Sammel 54 , D. Sampsonidis 152,f , D. Sampsonidou 62c,62d , J. Sánchez 163 ,
A. Sanchez Pineda4 , V . Sanchez Sebastian 163 , H. Sandaker 125 , C. O. Sander 48 , J. A. Sandesara 103 ,
M. Sandhoff171 , C. Sandoval 22b , D. P. C. Sankey 134 , T. Sano 87 , A. Sansoni 53 , L. Santi 75a,75b ,
C. Santoni40 , H. Santos 130a,130b , S. N. Santpur 17a , A. Santra 169 , K. A. Saoucha 139 , J. G. Saraiva 130a,130d ,
J. Sardain7 , O. Sasaki 83 , K. Sato 157 , C. Sauer 63b, F. Sauerburger 54 , E. Sauvan 4 ,P . S a v a r d155,af ,
R. Sawada153 , C. Sawyer134 , L. Sawyer97 , I. Sayago Galvan163, C. Sbarra23b , A. Sbrizzi23a,23b , T. Scanlon96 ,
J. Schaarschmidt138 , P. Schacht 110 , D. Schaefer 39 , U. Schäfer 100 , A. C. Schaffer 66,44 , D. Schaile 109 ,
R. D. Schamberger145 , E. Schanet 109 , C. Scharf 18 , M. M. Schefer 19 , V . A. Schegelsky37 , D. Scheirich 133 ,
F. Schenck18 , M. Schernau 160 , C. Scheulen 55 , C. Schiavi 57a,57b , Z. M. Schillaci 26 , E. J. Schioppa 70a,70b ,
M. Schioppa43a,43b , B. Schlag 100 , K. E. Schleicher 54 , S. Schlenker 36 , J. Schmeing 171 , M. A. Schmidt 171 ,
K. Schmieden100 , C. Schmitt 100 , S. Schmitt 48 , L. Schoeffel 135 , A. Schoening 63b , P. G. Scholer 54 ,
E. Schopf126 , M. Schott 100 , J. Schovancova 36 , S. Schramm 56 , F. Schroeder 171 , H.-C. Schultz-Coulon 63a ,
M. Schumacher54 , B. A. Schumm 136 , Ph. Schune 135 , H. R. Schwartz 136 , A. Schwartzman 143 ,
T. A. Schwarz106 , Ph. Schwemling 135 , R. Schwienhorst 107 , A. Sciandra 136 , G. Sciolla 26 , F. Scuri 74a ,
F. Scutti105, C. D. Sebastiani 92 , K. Sedlaczek 49 , P. Seema18 , S. C. Seidel 112 , A. Seiden 136 , B. D. Seidlitz 41 ,
C. Seitz48 , J. M. Seixas 82b , G. Sekhniaidze 72a , S. J. Sekula 44 , L. Selem 4 , N. Semprini-Cesari 23a,23b ,
S. Sen51 , D. Sengupta 56 , V . Senthilkumar163 , L. Serin 66 , L. Serkin 69a,69b , M. Sessa 77a,77b ,H . S e v e r i n i120 ,
F. Sforza57a,57b , A. Sfyrla 56 , E. Shabalina 55 , R. Shaheen 144 , J. D. Shahinian 128 , D. Shaked Renous 169 ,
L. Y . Shan14a , M. Shapiro 17a , A. Sharma 36 , A. S. Sharma 164 , P. Sharma80 , S. Sharma 48 , P. B. Shatalov37 ,
K. Shaw146 , S. M. Shaw 101 , Q. Shen 62c,5 , P. Sherwood96 , L. Shi 96 , C .O .S h i m m i n172 , Y . Shimogama168 ,
J. D. Shinner95 , I. P. J. Shipsey 126 , S. Shirabe 60 , M. Shiyakova 38,ap , J. Shlomi 169 , M. J. Shochet 39 ,
J. Shojaii105 , D. R. Shope125 , S. Shrestha119,aj , E. M. Shrif33g , M. J. Shroff165 , P. Sicho131 , A. M. Sickles162 ,
123

===== PAGE 31 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 31 of 37 681
E. Sideras Haddad33g , A. Sidoti 23b , F. Siegert 50 , Dj. Sijacki 15 ,R . S i k o r a85a , F. Sili 90 , J .M .S i l v a20 ,
M. V . Silva Oliveira36 , S. B. Silverstein 47a , S. Simion 66, R. Simoniello 36 , E. L. Simpson 59 , L. R. Simpson 106 ,
N. D. Simpson98,S . S i m s e k21d , S. Sindhu 55 , P. Sinervo 155 , S. Singh 142 , S. Singh 155 , S. Sinha 48 ,
S. Sinha33g , M. Sioli 23a,23b ,I . S i r a l36 , S. Yu. Sivoklokov 37,* , J. Sjölin 47a,47b , A. Skaf 55 ,E . S k o r d a98 ,
P. Skubic120 , M. Slawinska86 , V . Smakhtin169,B .H .S m a r t134 ,J .S m i e s k o36 , S. Yu. Smirnov37 ,Y .S m i r n o v37 ,
L. N. Smirnova37,a ,O . S m i r n o v a98 , A. C. Smith 41 , E. A. Smith 39 , H .A .S m i t h126 , J .L .S m i t h92 ,
R. Smith143, M. Smizanska 91 ,K . S m o l e k132 , A. Smykiewicz 86 , A. A. Snesarev 37 , H. L. Snoek 114 ,
S. Snyder29 , R. Sobie 165,y , A. Soffer 151 , C. A. Solans Sanchez 36 , E. Yu. Soldatov 37 , U. Soldevila 163 ,
A. A. Solodkov37 , S. Solomon 54 , A. Soloshenko 38 , K. Solovieva 54 , O. V . Solovyanov40 , V . Solovyev37 ,
P. Sommer36 , A. Sonay13 , W. Y . Song156b , J. M. Sonneveld114 , A. Sopczak132 , A. L. Sopio96 , F. Sopkova28b ,
V . Sothilingam63a, S. Sottocornola 68 , R. Soualah 116b , Z. Soumaimi 35e , D. South 48 , S. Spagnolo 70a,70b ,
M. Spalla110 , F. Spanò 95 , D. Sperlich 54 , G. Spigo 36 , M. Spina 146 , S. Spinali 91 , D. P. Spiteri 59 ,
M. Spousta133 , E. J. Staats 34 , A. Stabile 71a,71b ,R . S t a m e n63a , M. Stamenkovic 114 , A. Stampekis 20 ,
M. Standke24 , E. Stanecka 86 , M. V . Stange 50 , B. Stanislaus 17a , M. M. Stanitzki 48 , M. Stankaityte 126 ,
B. Stapf48 , E. A. Starchenko37 ,G .H .S t a r k136 ,J .S t a r k102,ao ,D .M .S t a r k o156b, P. Staroba131 , P. Starovoitov63a ,
S. Stärz104 , R. Staszewski 86 , G. Stavropoulos 46 , J. Steentoft 161 , P. Steinberg 29 , A. L. Steinhebel 123 ,
B. Stelzer142,156a , H .J .S t e l z e r129 , O. Stelzer-Chilton 156a , H. Stenzel 58 , T. J. Stevenson146 ,G . A . S t e w a r t36 ,
M. C. Stockton36 , G. Stoicea 27b , M. Stolarski 130a , S. Stonjek 110 , A. Straessner 50 , J. Strandberg 144 ,
S. Strandberg47a,47b , M. Strauss 120 , T. Strebler 102 , P. Strizenec 28b , R. Ströhmer 166 ,D . M . S t r o m123 ,
L. R. Strom48 , R. Stroynowski 44 , A. Strubig 47a,47b , S. A. Stucci 29 , B. Stugu 16 , J. Stupak 120 ,
N. A. Styles48 ,D . S u 143 ,S . S u 62a ,W . S u 62c,62d,138 ,X . S u 62a,66 , K. Sugizaki 153 , V . V . Sulin 37 ,
M. J. Sullivan92 , D .M .S .S u l t a n78a,78b , L. Sultanaliyeva 37 , S. Sultansoy 3b , T. Sumida 87 , S. Sun 106 ,
S. Sun170 , O. Sunneborn Gudnadottir 161 , M. R. Sutton 146 ,M . S v a t o s131 , M. Swiatlowski 156a , T. Swirski166 ,
I. Sykora28a , M. Sykora 133 , T. Sykora 133 ,D . T a 100 , K. Tackmann 48,w ,A . T a f f a r d160 , R. Taﬁrout 156a ,
J. S. Tafoya Vargas66 , R. H. M. Taibah 127 , R. Takashima 88 , K. Takeda 84 , E. P. Takeva 52 , Y . Takubo 83 ,
M. Talby102 , A. A. Talyshev 37 ,K . C . T a m64b ,N . M . T a m i r151, A. Tanaka 153 , J. Tanaka 153 , R. Tanaka 66 ,
M. Tanasini57a,57b , J. Tang62c,Z .T a o164 , S. Tapia Araya137f , S. Tapprogge100 , A. Tarek Abouelfadl Mohamed107 ,
S. Tarem150 ,K . T a r i q62b , G. Tarna 27b,102 , G. F. Tartarelli 71a ,P . T a s133 ,M . T a s e v s k y131 , E. Tassi 43a,43b ,
A. C. Tate162 , G. Tateno 153 , Y . Tayalati35e,x , G. N. Taylor 105 , W. Taylor 156b , H. Teagle 92,A . S . T e e170 ,
R. Teixeira De Lima143 , P. Teixeira-Dias 95 , J. J. Teoh 155 , K. Terashi 153 ,J . T e r r o n99 , S. Terzo 13 ,
M. Testa53 , R. J. Teuscher 155,y , A. Thaler 79 , O. Theiner 56 , N. Themistokleous 52 , T. Theveneaux-Pelzer 18 ,
O. Thielmann171 , D. W. Thomas 95, J. P. Thomas 20 , E. A. Thompson 48 , P. D. Thompson 20 , E. Thomson 128 ,
E. J. Thorpe94 ,Y . T i a n 55 , V . Tikhomirov 37,a , Yu. A. Tikhonov 37 , S. Timoshenko 37, E .X .L .T i n g 1 ,
P. Tipton172 , S. Tisserant102 ,S .H .T l o u33g , A. Tnourji40 , K. Todome23a,23b , S. Todorova-Nova133 , S. Todt50,
M. Togawa83 ,J . T o j o89 , S. Tokár 28a , K. Tokushuku 83 , R. Tombs 32 , M. Tomoto 83,111 , L. Tompkins 143,al ,
K. W. Topolnicki85b , P. Tornambe 103 , E. Torrence 123 ,H . T o r r e s50 , E. Torró Pastor 163 , M. Toscani 30 ,
C. Tosciri39 ,M . T o s t11 , D. R. Tovey 139 , A. Traeet 16, I. S. Trandaﬁr 27b , T. Trefzger 166 , A. Tricoli 29 ,
I. M. Trigger156a , S. Trincaz-Duvoid 127 , D. A. Trischuk 26 , B. Trocmé 60 , A. Trofymov 66 , C. Troncon 71a ,
L. Truong33c , M. Trzebinski 86 , A. Trzupek 86 ,F . T s a i145 ,M . T s a i106 ,A . T s i a m i s152,f , P. V . Tsiareshka37,
S. Tsigaridas156a , A. Tsirigotis152,u , V . Tsiskaridze145 , E. G. Tskhadadze149a, M. Tsopoulou152,f , Y . Tsujikawa87 ,
I. I. Tsukerman37 , V . Tsulaia 17a , S. Tsuno 83 ,O . T s u r150, D. Tsybychev 145 ,Y . T u64b , A. Tudorache 27b ,
V . Tudorache27b , A. N. Tuna36 , S. Turchikhin38 , I. Turk Cakir3a , R. Turra71a , T. Turtuvshin38,z ,P .M .T u t s41 ,
S. Tzamarias152,f , P. Tzanis 10 ,E . T z o v a r a100 , K. Uchida 153,F . U k e g a w a157 , P. A. Ulloa Poblete 137c ,
E. N. Umaka29 , G. Unal 36 , M. Unal 11 , A. Undrus 29 , G. Unel 160 , J. Urban 28b , P. Urquijo 105 ,G . U s a i8 ,
R. Ushioda154 ,M . U s m a n108 , Z. Uysal 21b , L. Vacavant102 , V . Vacek132 , B. Vachon104 , K .O .H .V a d l a125 ,
T. Vafeiadis36 , A. Vaitkus96 , C. Valderanis109 , E. Valdes Santurio47a,47b , M. Valente156a , S. Valentinetti23a,23b ,
A. Valero163 , A. Vallier 102,ao , J .A .V a l l sF e r r e r163 , D. R. Van Arneman 114 , T. R. Van Daalen 138 ,
P. Van Gemmeren6 , M. Van Rijnbach 125,36 , S. Van Stroud 96 , I. Van Vulpen 114 , M. Vanadia 76a,76b ,
W. Vandelli36 , M. Vandenbroucke 135 , E. R. Vandewall 121 , D. Vannicola 151 , L. Vannoli 57a,57b ,R . V a r i75a ,
E. W. Varnes7 , C. Varni17a , T. Varol148 , D. Varouchas66 , L. Varriale163 ,K . E . V a r v e l l147 , M. E. Vasile27b ,
L. Vaslin40, G. A. Vasquez165 , F. Vazeille40 , T. Vazquez Schroeder36 , J. Veatch31 , V . Vecchio101 ,M .J .V e e n103 ,
I. Veliscek126 , L. M. Veloce 155 , F. Veloso 130a,130c , S. Veneziano 75a , A. Ventura 70a,70b , A. Verbytskyi 110 ,
M. Verducci74a,74b , C. Vergis 24 , M. Verissimo De Araujo 82b ,W . V e r k e r k e114 , J. C. Vermeulen 114 ,
123

===== PAGE 32 =====
681 Page 32 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
C. Vernieri143 , P. J. Verschuuren 95 , M. Vessella 103 , M .C .V e t t e r l i142,af , A. Vgenopoulos 152,f ,
N. Viaux Maira137f ,T . V i c k e y 139 , O .E .V i c k e yB o e r i u139 , G. H. A. Viehhauser 126 , L. Vigani 63b ,
M. Villa23a,23b , M. Villaplana Perez 163 , E. M. Villhauer 52, E. Vilucchi 53 , M. G. Vincter 34 , G .S .V i r d e e20 ,
A. Vishwakarma52 , C. Vittori 23a,23b , I. Vivarelli 146 , V . Vladimirov 167, E. V oevodina 110 , F. V ogel 109 ,
P. V okac132 , J. V on Ahnen48 , E. V on Toerne24 , B. V ormwald36 , V . V orobel133 , K. V orobev37 ,M . V o s163 ,
K. V oss141 , J. H. V ossebeld 92 , M. V ozak 114 , L. V ozdecky 94 , N. Vranjes 15 , M. Vranjes Milosavljevic 15 ,
M. Vreeswijk114 , R. Vuillermet 36 , O. Vujinovic100 , I. Vukotic39 , S. Wada 157 , C. Wagner 103, W. Wagner171 ,
S. Wahdan171 , H. Wahlberg90 , R. Wakasa157 , M. Wakida111 , V . M. Walbrecht110 , J. Walder134 ,R .W a l k e r109 ,
W. Walkowiak141 , A .M .W a n g61 , A .Z .W a n g170 , C. Wang 62a , C. Wang 62c , H. Wang 17a , J. Wang 64a ,
R.-J. Wang100 , R. Wang 61 , R. Wang 6 , S. M. Wang 148 , S. Wang 62b , T. Wang 62a , W .T .W a n g80 ,
X. Wang14c , X. Wang 162 , X. Wang 62c , Y . Wang 62d , Y . Wang 14c , Z. Wang 106 , Z. Wang 51,62c,62d ,
Z. Wang106 , A. Warburton104 , R .J .W a r d20 , N. Warrack59 ,A . T . W a t s o n20 ,H . W a t s o n59 ,M . F . W a t s o n20 ,
G. Watts138 , B. M. Waugh 96 , A. F. Webb11 , C. Weber 29 , H. A. Weber 18 , M. S. Weber 19 , S. M. Weber 63a ,
C. Wei62a,Y . W e i126 , A. R. Weidberg 126 , J. Weingarten 49 , M. Weirich 100 ,C . W e i s e r54 , C .J .W e l l s48 ,
T. Wenaus29 , B. Wendland 49 , T. Wengler 36 , N. S. Wenke 110,N . W e r m e s24 , M. Wessels 63a , K. Whalen 123 ,
A. M. Wharton91 , A. S. White 61 , A. White 8 , M .J .W h i t e1 , D. Whiteson 160 , L. Wickremasinghe 124 ,
W. Wiedenmann170 ,C . W i e l50 , M. Wielers 134 , C. Wiglesworth 42 , L. A. M. Wiik-Fuchs 54 , D. J. Wilbern 120,
H. G. Wilkens36 , D. M. Williams 41 , H. H. Williams 128, S. Williams 32 , S. Willocq 103 , P. J. Windischhofer 126 ,
F. Winklmeier123 , B. T. Winter54 , J. K. Winter101 , M. Wittgen143, M. Wobisch97 ,R .W ö l k e r126 , J. Wollrath160,
M. W. Wolter86 , H. Wolters 130a,130c , V .W .S .W o n g164 , A. F. Wongel 48 ,S . D . W o r m48 ,B . K . W o s i e k86 ,
K. W. Wo´zniak86 , K. Wraight 59 ,J . W u14a,14d ,M . W u64a ,M . W u113 ,S . L . W u170 ,X . W u56 ,Y . W u62a ,
Z. Wu62a,135 , J. Wuerzinger126 , T. R. Wyatt101 , B. M. Wynne52 , S. Xella42 ,L .X i a14c ,M .X i a14b, J. Xiang64c ,
X. Xiao106 ,M . X i e62a ,X . X i e62a ,S . X i n14a,14d , J. Xiong 17a , I. Xiotidis 146,D . X u14a ,H . X u62a,H . X u62a ,
L. Xu62a ,R . X u128 ,T . X u106 ,W . X u106 ,Y . X u14b ,Z . X u62b ,Z . X u14a , B. Yabsley147 , S. Yacoob33a ,
N. Yamaguchi89 , Y . Yamaguchi154 , H. Yamauchi 157 , T. Yamazaki17a , Y . Yamazaki84 ,J . Y a n62c,S . Y a n126 ,
Z. Yan25 , H. J. Yang62c,62d , H. T. Yang62a , S. Yang62a , T. Yang64c , X. Yang62a , X. Yang14a , Y . Yang44 ,
Z. Yang62a,106 ,W . - M . Y a o17a ,Y . C . Y a p48 ,H . Y e14c ,H . Y e55 ,J . Y e44 ,S . Y e29 ,X . Y e62a ,Y . Y e h96 ,
I. Yeletskikh38 ,B . K . Y e o17a ,M . R . Y e x l e y91 ,P . Y i n41 , K. Yorita 168 , S. Younas 27b , C. J. S. Young 54 ,
C. Young143 , M. Yuan 106 , R. Yuan 62b,l ,L . Y u e96 ,X . Y u e63a , M. Zaazoua 35e , B. Zabinski 86 ,E . Z a i d52,
T. Zakareishvili149b , N. Zakharchuk 34 , S. Zambito 56 , J. A. Zamora Saa 137b,137d , J. Zang 153 , D. Zanzi 54 ,
O. Zaplatilek132 , S. V . Zeißner49 , C. Zeitnitz171 , J. C. Zeng 162 , D. T. Zenger Jr.26 , O. Zenin37 , T. Ženiš28a ,
S. Zenz94 , S. Zerradi35a ,D .Z e r w a s66 , M. Zhai14a,14d , B. Zhang14c , D. F. Zhang139 , J. Zhang62b , J. Zhang6 ,
K. Zhang14a,14d , L. Zhang 14c , P. Zhang 14a,14d, R. Zhang 170 , S. Zhang 106 , T. Zhang 153 , X. Zhang 62c ,
X. Zhang62b , Y . Zhang5,62c , Z. Zhang 17a , Z. Zhang 66 , H. Zhao 138 , P. Zhao 51 , T. Zhao 62b , Y . Zhao136 ,
Z. Zhao62a , A. Zhemchugov38 , X. Zheng62a , Z. Zheng143 , D. Zhong162 , B. Zhou106, C. Zhou170 , H. Zhou7 ,
N. Zhou62c , Y . Zhou 7,C . G . Z h u62b ,C . Z h u14a,14d , H .L .Z h u62a ,H . Z h u14a ,J . Z h u106 ,Y . Z h u62c ,
Y. Z h u62a , X. Zhuang 14a , K. Zhukov 37 , V . Zhulanov37 , N .I .Z i m i n e38 , J. Zinsser 63b , M. Ziolkowski 141 ,
L. Živkovi´c15 , A. Zoccoli23a,23b , K. Zoch56 , T. G. Zorbas139 ,O .Z o r m p a46 ,W .Z o u41 , L. Zwalinski36
1 Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia
2 Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
3 (a)Department of Physics, Ankara University, Ankara, Türkiye;(b)Division of Physics, TOBB University of Economics
and Technology, Ankara, Türkiye
4 LAPP, Université Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS/IN2P3, Annecy, France
5 APC, Université Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
6 High Energy Physics Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL, USA
7 Department of Physics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
8 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX, USA
9 Physics Department, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
10 Physics Department, National Technical University of Athens, Zografou, Greece
11 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA
12 Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
13 Institut de Física d’Altes Energies (IFAE), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain
123

===== PAGE 33 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 33 of 37 681
14 (a)Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; (b)Physics Department, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China;(c)Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China;(d)University of Chinese
Academy of Science (UCAS), Beijing, China
15 Institute of Physics, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia
16 Department for Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
17 (a)Physics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA;(b)University of California, Berkeley,
CA, USA
18 Institut für Physik, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany
19 Albert Einstein Center for Fundamental Physics and Laboratory for High Energy Physics, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland
20 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
21 (a)Department of Physics, Bogazici University, Istanbul, Türkiye;(b)Department of Physics Engineering, Gaziantep
University, Gaziantep, Türkiye;(c)Department of Physics, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Türkiye;(d)Istinye University,
Sariyer, Istanbul, Türkiye
22 (a)Facultad de Ciencias y Centro de Investigaciónes, Universidad Antonio Nariño, Bogotá, Colombia;(b)Departamento
de Física, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia
23 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia A. Righi, Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Bologna,
Bologna, Italy
24 Physikalisches Institut, Universität Bonn, Bonn, Germany
25 Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA
26 Department of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, USA
27 (a)Transilvania University of Brasov, Brasov, Romania;(b)Horia Hulubei National Institute of Physics and Nuclear
Engineering, Bucharest, Romania; (c)Department of Physics, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi,
Iasi, Romania; (d)Physics Department, National Institute for Research and Development of Isotopic and Molecular
Technologies, Cluj-Napoca, Romania;(e)University Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania;(f)West University in
Timisoara, Timisoara, Romania;(g)Faculty of Physics, University of Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania
28 (a)Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovak Republic;(b)Department of
Subnuclear Physics, Institute of Experimental Physics of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Kosice, Slovak Republic
29 Physics Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY, USA
30 Departamento de Física, y CONICET, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Instituto de Física de Buenos Aires
(IFIBA), Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina
31 California State University, CA, USA
32 Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK
33 (a)Department of Physics, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa;(b)iThemba Labs, Western Cape, South
Africa; (c)Department of Mechanical Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg,
South Africa; (d)National Institute of Physics, University of the Philippines Diliman, Quezon City,
Philippines; (e)Department of Physics, University of South Africa, Pretoria, South Africa;(f)University of Zululand,
KwaDlangezwa, South Africa; (g)School of Physics, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
34 Department of Physics, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada
35 (a)Faculté des Sciences Ain Chock, Réseau Universitaire de Physique des Hautes Energies - Université Hassan II,
Casablanca, Morocco; (b)Faculté des Sciences, Université Ibn-Tofail, Kénitra, Morocco;(c)Faculté des Sciences
Semlalia, Université Cadi Ayyad, LPHEA-Marrakech, Marrakech, Morocco;(d)LPMR, Faculté des Sciences, Université
Mohamed Premier, Oujda, Morocco; (e)Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed V, Rabat, Morocco;(f)Institute of
Applied Physics, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, Ben Guerir, Morocco
36 CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
37 Afﬁliated with an Institute Covered by a Cooperation Agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
38 Afﬁliated with an International Laboratory Covered by a Cooperation Agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
39 Enrico Fermi Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA
40 LPC, Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS/IN2P3, Clermont-Ferrand, France
41 Nevis Laboratory, Columbia University, Irvington, NY, USA
42 Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
43 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università della Calabria, Rende, Italy;(b)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Cosenza, Laboratori
Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
123

===== PAGE 34 =====
681 Page 34 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
44 Physics Department, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, USA
45 Physics Department, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, TX, USA
46 National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research “Demokritos”, Agia Paraskevi, Greece
47 (a)Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden;(b)Oskar Klein Centre, Stockholm, Sweden
48 Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg and Zeuthen, Germany
49 Fakultät Physik , Technische Universität Dortmund, Dortmund, Germany
50 Institut für Kern-und Teilchenphysik, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany
51 Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA
52 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK
53 INFN e Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
54 Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
55 II. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
56 Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland
57 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Genova, Genoa, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Genova, Genoa, Italy
58 II. Physikalisches Institut, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, Giessen, Germany
59 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK
60 LPSC, Université Grenoble Alpes, CNRS/IN2P3, Grenoble INP, Grenoble, France
61 Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA
62 (a)Department of Modern Physics and State Key Laboratory of Particle Detection and Electronics, University of Science
and Technology of China, Hefei, China;(b)Institute of Frontier and Interdisciplinary Science and Key Laboratory of
Particle Physics and Particle Irradiation (MOE), Shandong University, Qingdao, China;(c)Key Laboratory for Particle
Astrophysics and Cosmology (MOE), SKLPPC, School of Physics and Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai, China;
(d)Tsung-Dao Lee Institute, Shanghai, China
63 (a)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany;(b)Physikalisches Institut,
Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany
64 (a)Department of Physics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China;(b)Department of Physics,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China;(c)Department of Physics and Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China
65 Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
66 IJCLab, Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS/IN2P3, Orsay 91405, France
67 Centro Nacional de Microelectrónica (IMB-CNM-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain
68 Department of Physics, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA
69 (a)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Udine, Sezione di Trieste, Udine, Italy;(b)ICTP, Trieste, Italy;(c)Dipartimento Politecnico
di Ingegneria e Architettura, Università di Udine, Udine, Italy
70 (a)INFN Sezione di Lecce, Lecce, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università del Salento, Lecce, Italy
71 (a)INFN Sezione di Milano, Milan, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Milano, Milan, Italy
72 (a)INFN Sezione di Napoli, Naples, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Napoli, Naples, Italy
73 (a)INFN Sezione di Pavia, Pavia, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Pavia, Pavia, Italy
74 (a)INFN Sezione di Pisa, Pisa, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica E. Fermi, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy
75 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma, Rome, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy
76 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome,
Italy
77 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tre, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università Roma Tre, Rome, Italy
78 (a)INFN-TIFPA, Povo, Italy;(b)Università degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy
79 Department of Astro and Particle Physics, Universität Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria
80 University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
81 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA
82 (a)Departamento de Engenharia Elétrica, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora (UFJF), Juiz de Fora,
Brazil; (b)Universidade Federal do Rio De Janeiro COPPE/EE/IF, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;(c)Instituto de Física,
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil;(d)Rio de Janeiro State University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
83 KEK, High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan
84 Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan
123

===== PAGE 35 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 35 of 37 681
85 (a)Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, AGH University of Science and Technology, Kraków,
Poland; (b)Marian Smoluchowski Institute of Physics, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland
86 Institute of Nuclear Physics Polish Academy of Sciences, Kraków, Poland
87 Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
88 Kyoto University of Education, Kyoto, Japan
89 Research Center for Advanced Particle Physics and Department of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan
90 Instituto de Física La Plata, Universidad Nacional de La Plata and CONICET, La Plata, Argentina
91 Physics Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK
92 Oliver Lodge Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK
93 Department of Experimental Particle Physics, Jožef Stefan Institute and Department of Physics, University of Ljubljana,
Ljubljana, Slovenia
94 School of Physics and Astronomy, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK
95 Department of Physics, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK
96 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, UK
97 Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, LA, USA
98 Fysiska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Lund, Sweden
99 Departamento de Física Teorica C-15 and CIAFF, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
100 Institut für Physik, Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany
101 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK
102 CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
103 Department of Physics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA
104 Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada
105 School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
106 Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
107 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
108 Group of Particle Physics, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada
109 Fakultät für Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany
110 Max-Planck-Institut für Physik (Werner-Heisenberg-Institut), Munich, Germany
111 Graduate School of Science and Kobayashi-Maskawa Institute, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
112 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA
113 Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University/Nikhef, Nijmegen, The Netherlands
114 Nikhef National Institute for Subatomic Physics and University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
115 Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA
116 (a)New York University Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates;(b)University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab
Emirates
117 Department of Physics, New York University, New York, NY, USA
118 Ochanomizu University, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan
119 Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA
120 Homer L. Dodge Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA
121 Department of Physics, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, USA
122 Joint Laboratory of Optics, Palacký University, Olomouc, Czech Republic
123 Institute for Fundamental Science, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, USA
124 Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
125 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
126 Department of Physics, Oxford University, Oxford, UK
127 LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Université Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
128 Department of Physics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA
129 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
130 (a)Laboratório de Instrumentação e Física Experimental de Partículas-LIP, Lisbon, Portugal; (b)Departamento de Física,
Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(c)Departamento de Física, Universidade de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; (d)Centro de Física Nuclear da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(e)Departamento de Física,
Universidade do Minho, Braga, Portugal;(f)Departamento de Física Teórica y del Cosmos, Universidad de Granada,
Granada, Spain; (g)Departamento de Física, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal
123

===== PAGE 36 =====
681 Page 36 of 37 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681
131 Institute of Physics of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic
132 Czech Technical University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic
133 Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic
134 Particle Physics Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, UK
135 IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
136 Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA
137 (a)Departamento de Física, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile;(b)Millennium Institute for
Subatomic Physics at High Energy Frontier (SAPHIR), Santiago, Chile; (c)Instituto de Investigación Multidisciplinario
en Ciencia y Tecnología, y Departamento de Física, Universidad de La Serena, La Serena, Chile;(d)Department of
Physics, Universidad Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile;(e)Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica,
Chile; (f)Departamento de Física, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, Valparaíso, Chile
138 Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, W A, USA
139 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Shefﬁeld, Shefﬁeld, UK
140 Department of Physics, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan
141 Department Physik, Universität Siegen, Siegen, Germany
142 Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada
143 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford, CA, USA
144 Department of Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden
145 Departments of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA
146 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK
147 School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
148 Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
149 (a)E. Andronikashvili Institute of Physics, Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(b)High Energy
Physics Institute, Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(c)University of Georgia, Tbilisi, Georgia
150 Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel
151 Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
152 Department of Physics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece
153 International Center for Elementary Particle Physics and Department of Physics, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
154 Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan
155 Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada
156 (a)TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Canada;(b)Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada
157 Division of Physics and Tomonaga Center for the History of the Universe, Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences,
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan
158 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA
159 United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates
160 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA
161 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden
162 Department of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA
163 Instituto de Física Corpuscular (IFIC), Centro Mixto Universidad de Valencia-CSIC, Valencia, Spain
164 Department of Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada
165 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada
166 Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany
167 Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
168 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
169 Department of Particle Physics and Astrophysics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
170 Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA
171 Fakultät für Mathematik und Naturwissenschaften, Fachgruppe Physik, Bergische Universität Wuppertal, Wuppertal,
Germany
172 Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA
a Also Afﬁliated with an Institute Covered by a Cooperation Agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
b Also at An-Najah National University, Nablus, Palestine
c Also at Borough of Manhattan Community College, City University of New York, New York, NY, USA
123

===== PAGE 37 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :681 Page 37 of 37 681
d Also at Bruno Kessler Foundation, Trento, Italy
e Also at Center for High Energy Physics, Peking University, Beijing, China
f Also at Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Thessaloniki, Greece
g Also at Centro Studi e Ricerche Enrico Fermi, Rome, Italy
h Also at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
i Also at Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland
j Also at Departament de Fisica de la Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
k Also at Department of Financial and Management Engineering, University of the Aegean, Chios, Greece
l Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
m Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, USA
n Also at Department of Physics, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beersheba, Israel
o Also at Department of Physics, California State University, East Bay, USA
p Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Sacramento, USA
q Also at Department of Physics, King’s College London, London, UK
r Also at Department of Physics, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland
s Also at Department of Physics, University of Thessaly, V olos, Greece
t Also at Department of Physics, Westmont College, Santa Barbara, USA
u Also at Hellenic Open University, Patras, Greece
v Also at Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avancats, ICREA, Barcelona, Spain
w Also at Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
x Also at Institute of Applied Physics, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, Ben Guerir, Morocco
y Also at Institute of Particle Physics (IPP), Toronto, Canada
z Also at Institute of Physics and Technology, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
aa Also at Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
ab Also at Institute of Theoretical Physics, Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
ac Also at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, USA
ad Also at III. Physikalisches Institut A, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany
ae Also at The Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter (CICQM), Beijing, China
af Also at TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Canada
ag Also at Università di Napoli Parthenope, Naples, Italy
ah Also at University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS), Beijing, China
ai Also at Department of Physics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA
aj Also at Washington College, Chestertown, MD, USA
ak Also at National Institute of Physics, University of the Philippines Diliman (Philippines), Quezon City, Philippines
al Also at Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, United States of America
am Also at Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany
an Also at Yeditepe University, Physics Department, Istanbul, Türkiye
ao Also at L2IT, Université de Toulouse, CNRS/IN2P3,UPS, Toulouse, France
ap Also at Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy (INRNE) of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Soﬁa,
Bulgaria
∗ Deceased
123