

===== PAGE 1 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79:970
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-7450-8
Regular Article - Experimental Physics
ATLAS b-jet identiﬁcation performance and efﬁciency
measurement with t ¯t events in pp collisions at √ s = 13 TeV
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
CERN, 1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland
Received: 12 July 2019 / Accepted: 31 October 2019 / Published online: 25 November 2019
© CERN for the beneﬁt of the ATLAS collaboration 2019
Abstract The algorithms used by the ATLAS Collabora-
tion during Run 2 of the Large Hadron Collider to identify
jets containing b-hadrons are presented. The performance of
the algorithms is evaluated in the simulation and the efﬁ-
ciency with which these algorithms identify jets containing
b-hadrons is measured in collision data. The measurement
uses a likelihood-based method in a sample highly enriched
in t ¯t events. The topology of thet → Wb decays is exploited
to simultaneously measure both the jet ﬂavour composition
of the sample and the efﬁciency in a transverse momentum
range from 20 to 600 GeV . The efﬁciency measurement is
subsequently compared with that predicted by the simula-
tion. The data used in this measurement, corresponding to
a total integrated luminosity of 80.5 fb
−1, were collected
in proton–proton collisions during the years 2015–2017 at
a centre-of-mass energy √ s = 13 TeV . By simultaneously
extracting both the efﬁciency and jet ﬂavour composition,
this measurement signiﬁcantly improves the precision com-
pared to previous results, with uncertainties ranging from 1
to 8% depending on the jet transverse momentum.
Contents
1 Introduction ..................... 1
2 ATLAS detector ................... 2
3 Key ingredients for b-jet identiﬁcation ....... 3
4 Algorithms for b-jet identiﬁcation ......... 4
4.1 Training and tuning samples ......... 4
4.2 Low-level b-tagging algorithms ........ 4
4.2.1 Algorithms based on impact parameters 4
4.2.2 Secondary vertex ﬁnding algorithm .. 5
4.2.3 Topological multi-vertex ﬁnding algo-
rithm .................. 5
4.3 High-level tagging algorithms ........ 5
4.3.1 MV2 .................. 5
4.3.2 DL1 .................. 6
4.4 Algorithm performance ............ 7
5 Data and simulated samples ............ 9
⋆ e-mail: atlas.publications@cern.ch
6 Event selection and classiﬁcation .......... 1 0
6.1 Lepton object deﬁnition ............ 1 0
6.2 Event selection ................ 1 0
6.3 Event classiﬁcation .............. 1 2
7 Extraction of b-jet tagging efﬁciency ........ 1 2
8 Uncertainties .................... 1 4
9 Results ....................... 1 6
10 Usage in ATLAS analysis .............. 1 7
10.1 Smoothing ................... 1 9
10.2 Extrapolation to high- pT jets ......... 1 9
10.3 Generator dependence ............. 2 0
10.4 Reduction of systematic uncertainties .... 2 0
10.5 Application to physics analyses ........ 2 0
11 Conclusion ..................... 2 1
References ........................ 2 2
1 Introduction
The identiﬁcation of jets containing b-hadrons ( b-jets)
against the large jet background containing c-hadrons but
no b-hadron ( c-jets) or containing neither b-o r c-hadrons
(light-ﬂavour jets) is of major importance in many areas of
the physics programme of the ATLAS experiment [1]a tt h e
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) [2]. It has been decisive in the
recent observations of the Higgs boson decay into bottom
quarks [3] and of its production in association with a top-
quark pair [4], and plays a crucial role in a large number of
Standard Model (SM) precision measurements, studies of the
Higgs boson properties, and searches for new phenomena.
The ATLAS Collaboration uses various algorithms to
identify b-jets [5], referred to as b-tagging algorithms, when
analysing data recorded during Run 2 of the LHC (2015–
2018). These algorithms exploit the long lifetime, high mass
and high decay multiplicity ofb-hadrons as well as the prop-
erties of the b-quark fragmentation. Given a lifetime of the
order of 1.5 ps (< cτ> ≈ 450 µm), measurable b-hadrons
have a signiﬁcant mean ﬂight length, < l >= βγcτ,i nt h e
detector before decaying, generally leading to at least one
123

===== PAGE 2 =====
970 Page 2 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
vertex displaced from the hard-scatter collision point. The
strategy developed by the ATLAS Collaboration is based on
a two-stage approach. Firstly, low-level algorithms recon-
struct the characteristic features of the b-jets via two com-
plementary approaches, one that uses the individual prop-
erties of charged-particle tracks, later referred to as tracks,
associated with a hadronic jet, and a second which com-
bines the tracks to explicitly reconstruct displaced vertices.
These algorithms, ﬁrst introduced during Run 1 [ 5], have
been improved and retuned for Run 2. Secondly, in order
to maximise the b-tagging performance, the results of the
low-level b-tagging algorithms are combined in high-level
algorithms consisting of multivariate classiﬁers. The perfor-
mance of a b-tagging algorithm is characterised by the prob-
ability of tagging ab-jet (b-jet tagging efﬁciency,ε
b) and the
probability of mistakenly identifying ac-jet or a light-ﬂavour
jet as ab-jet, labelledεc (εl ). In this paper, the performance of
the algorithms is quantiﬁed in terms ofc-jet and light-ﬂavour
jet rejections, deﬁned as 1/εc and 1/εl , respectively.
The imperfect description of the detector response and
physics modelling effects in Monte Carlo (MC) simula-
tions necessitates the measurement of the performance of the
b-tagging algorithms with collision data [6–8]. In this paper,
the measurement of the b-jet tagging efﬁciency of the high-
level b-tagging algorithms used in proton–proton (pp) colli-
sion data recorded during Run 2 of the LHC at√
s = 13 TeV
is presented. The corresponding measurements forc-jets and
light-ﬂavour jets, used in the measurement of the b-jet tag-
ging efﬁciency to correct the simulation such that the overall
tagging efﬁciency of c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets match that
of the data, are described elsewhere [7,8]. The production of
t ¯t pairs at the LHC provides an abundant source ofb-jets by
virtue of the high cross-section and the t → Wb branching
ratio being close to 100%. A very pure sample oft ¯t events is
selected by requiring that both W bosons decay leptonically,
referred to as dileptonic t ¯t decays in the following. A com-
binatorial likelihood approach is used to measure the b-jet
tagging efﬁciency of the high-level b-tagging algorithms as
a function of the jet transverse momentum (p
T). This version
of the analysis builds upon the approach used previously by
the ATLAS Collaboration [6], extending the method to derive
additional constraints on the ﬂavour composition of the sam-
ple, which reduces the uncertainties by up to a factor of two
relative to previous publication.
The paper is organised as follows. In Sect. 2, the ATLAS
detector is described. Section 3 contains a description of the
objects reconstructed in the detector which are key ingre-
dients for b-tagging algorithms, while Sect. 4 describes the
b-tagging algorithms and the evaluation of their performance
in the simulation. The second part of the paper focuses on
the b-jet tagging efﬁciency measurement carried out in col-
lision data and the application of these results in ATLAS
analyses. The data and simulated samples used in this work
are described in Sect. 5. The event selection and classiﬁ-
cation performed for the measurement of the b-jet tagging
efﬁciency are summarised in Sect.6. The measurement tech-
nique is presented in Sect. 7 and the sources of uncertainties
are described in Sect. 8. The results and their usage within
the ATLAS Collaboration are discussed in Sects. 9 and 10,
respectively.
2 ATLAS detector
The ATLAS detector [1] at the LHC covers nearly the entire
solid angle around the collision point. It consists of an
inner tracking detector (ID) surrounded by a superconduct-
ing solenoid, electromagnetic and hadronic calorimeters and
a muon spectrometer incorporating three large superconduct-
ing toroid magnets.
The ID consists in a high-granularity silicon pixel detector
which covers the vertex region and typically provides four
measurements per track. The innermost layer, known as the
insertable B-layer (IBL) [9], was added in 2014 and provides
high-resolution hits at small radius to improve the tracking
performance. For a ﬁxed b-jet efﬁciency, the incorporation
of the IBL improves the light-ﬂavour jet rejection of the b-
tagging algorithms by up to a factor of four [ 10]. The sili-
con pixel detector is followed by a silicon microstrip tracker
(SCT) that typically provides eight measurements from four
strip double layers. These silicon detectors are complemented
by a transition radiation tracker (TRT), which enables radi-
ally extended track reconstruction up to the pseudorapidity
1
|η|= 2.0. The TRT also provides electron identiﬁcation
information based on the fraction of hits (typically 33 in the
barrel and up to an average of 38 in the endcaps) above a
higher energy-deposit threshold corresponding to transition
radiation. The ID is immersed in a 2 T axial magnetic ﬁeld
and provides charged-particle tracking in the pseudorapidity
range |η| < 2.5.
The calorimeter system covers the pseudorapidity range
|η| < 4.9. Within the region |η| < 3.2, electromag-
netic calorimetry is provided by barrel and endcap high-
granularity lead/liquid-argon (LAr) sampling calorimeters,
with an additional thin LAr presampler covering|η| < 1.8t o
correct for energy loss in material upstream of the calorime-
ters. Hadronic calorimetry is provided by a steel/scintillator-
tile calorimeter, segmented into three barrel structures within
1 ATLAS uses a right-handed coordinate system with its origin at the
nominal interaction point (IP) in the centre of the detector and the z-
axis along the beam pipe. The x-axis points from the IP to the centre of
the LHC ring, and the y-axis points upwards. Cylindrical coordinates
(r,φ) are used in the transverse plane, φ being the azimuthal angle
around the z-axis. The pseudorapidity is deﬁned in terms of the polar
angle θas η=− ln tan(θ/2). Angular distance is measured in units of
/Delta1R ≡
√
(/Delta1η)2 + (/Delta1φ)2.
123

===== PAGE 3 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 3 of 36 970
|η| < 1.7, and two copper/LAr hadronic endcap calorime-
ters. The solid angle coverage is completed with forward cop-
per/LAr and tungsten/LAr calorimeter modules optimised for
electromagnetic and hadronic measurements, respectively.
The muon spectrometer comprises separate trigger and
high-precision tracking chambers measuring the deﬂection of
muons in a magnetic ﬁeld generated by superconducting air-
core toroids. The precision chamber system covers the region
|η| < 2.7 with three layers of monitored drift tubes, com-
plemented by cathode-strip chambers in the forward region.
The muon trigger system covers the range |η| < 2.4 with
resistive-plate chambers in the barrel and thin-gap chambers
in the endcap regions.
A two-level trigger system [11] is used to select interest-
ing events. The ﬁrst level of the trigger is implemented in
hardware and uses a subset of detector information to reduce
the event rate to a design value of at most 100 kHz. It is fol-
lowed by a software-based trigger that reduces the event rate
to a maximum of around 1 kHz for ofﬂine storage.
3 Key ingredients for b-jet identiﬁcation
The identiﬁcation of b-jets is based on several objects recon-
structed in the ATLAS detector which are described here.
Tracksare reconstructed in the ID [12]. The b-tagging algo-
rithms only consider tracks withp
T larger than 500 MeV,
with further selection criteria applied to reject fake and
poorly measured tracks [ 13]. The combined efﬁciency
of the track reconstruction and selection criteria, evalu-
ated by using minimum-bias simulated events (in which
more than 98% of charged-particles are pions), ranges
from 91% in the central (|η| < 0.1) region to 73% in the
forward (2.3 ≤| η| < 2.5) region of the detector. Addi-
tional selections on reconstructed tracks are applied in
the low-level b-tagging algorithms described in Sect.4.2
to speciﬁcally select b- and c-hadron decay track candi-
dates and improve the rejection of tracks originating from
pile-up.
2
Primary vertex(PV) reconstruction [14,15] on an event-by-
event basis is particularly important for b-tagging since
it deﬁnes the reference point from which track and ver-
tex displacements are computed. A longitudinal vertex
position resolution of about 30µm is achieved for events
with a high multiplicity of reconstructed tracks, while the
transverse resolution ranges from 10 to 12 µm, depend-
ing on the LHC running conditions that determine the
beam spot size. At least one PV is required in each event,
2 Pile-up interactions correspond to additional pp collisions accompa-
nying the hard-scatter pp interaction in proton bunch collisions at the
LHC.
with the PV that has the highest sum of squared trans-
verse momenta of contributing tracks selected as the pri-
mary interaction point. Displaced charged-particle tracks
originating from b-hadron decays can then be selected
by requiring large transverse and longitudinal impact
parameters, IP
rφ =| d0| and IP z =| z0 sin θ|, respec-
tively, whered0 (z0) represents the transverse (longitudi-
nal) perigee parameter deﬁned at the point of the closest
approach of the trajectory to thez-axis [16]. Upper limits
on the values of these parameters are used to reduce the
contamination from pile-up, secondary and fake tracks.
Hadronic jets are built from topological clusters of energy
in the calorimeter [17], calibrated to the electromagnetic
scale, using the anti- kt algorithm with radius parameter
R = 0.4[ 18]. Jet transverse momenta are further cor-
rected to the corresponding particle-level jet pT, based
on the simulation [ 19]. Remaining differences between
data and simulated events are evaluated and corrected
for using in situ techniques, which exploit the trans-
verse momentum balance between a jet and a reference
object such as a photon, Z boson, or multi-jet system
in data. After these calibrations, all jets in the event
with p
T ≥ 20 GeV and |η| < 4.5 must satisfy a set
of loose jet-quality requirements [ 20], else the event is
discarded. These requirements are designed to reject fake
jets originating from sporadic bursts, large coherent noise
or isolated pathological cells in the calorimeter system,
hardware issues, beam-induced background or cosmic-
ray muons. Jets with p
T < 20 GeV or|η|≥ 2.5 are then
discarded. In order to reduce the number of jets with large
energy fractions from pile-up collision vertices, the Jet
Vertex Tagger (JVT) algorithm is used [ 21]. The JVT
procedure builds a multivariate discriminant for each jet
within |η| < 2.5 based on the ID tracks ghost-associated
with the jet [ 22]; in particular, jets with a large fraction
of high-momentum tracks from pile-up vertices are less
likely to pass the JVT requirement. The rate of pile-up
jets with p
T ≥ 120 GeV is sufﬁciently small that the JVT
requirement is removed above this threshold. The JVT
efﬁciency for jets originating from the hard pp scatter-
ing is 92% in the simulation. Scale factors of order unity
are applied to account for efﬁciency differences relative
to collision data.
Track–jet matching is performed using the angular sep-
aration /Delta1R between the track momenta, deﬁned at the
perigee, and the jet axis, deﬁned as the vectorial sum of
the four-momenta of the clusters associated with the jet.
Given that the decay products from higher-p
T b-hadrons
are more collimated, the/Delta1R requirement varies as a func-
tion of jet pT, being wider for low- pT jets (0.45 for jet
pT = 20 GeV) and narrower for high-pT jets (0.26 for jet
pT = 150 GeV). If more than one jet fulﬁls the matching
criteria, the closest jet is preferred. The jet axis is also
123

===== PAGE 4 =====
970 Page 4 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
used to assign signed impact parameters to tracks, where
the sign is deﬁned as positive if the track intersects the jet
axis in the transverse plane in front of the primary vertex,
and as negative if the intersection lies behind the primary
vertex.
Jet ﬂavour labels are attributed to the jets in the simulation.
Jets are labelled asb-jets if they are matched to at least one
weakly decaying b-hadron having p
T ≥ 5 GeV within a
cone of size/Delta1R = 0.3 around the jet axis. If nob-hadrons
are found, c-hadrons and thenτ-leptons are searched for,
based on the same selection criteria. The jets matched to
a c-hadron (τ-lepton) are labelled as c-jets (τ-jets). The
remaining jets are labelled as light-ﬂavour jets.
4 Algorithms for b-jet identiﬁcation
This section describes the different algorithms used forb-jet
identiﬁcation and the evaluation of their performance in sim-
ulation. Low-level b-tagging algorithms fall into two broad
categories. A ﬁrst approach, implemented in the IP2D and
IP3D algorithms [23] and described in Sect. 4.2.1, is inclu-
sive and based on exploiting the large impact parameters of
the tracks originating from the b-hadron decay. The second
approach explicitly reconstructs displaced vertices. TheSV1
algorithm [24], discussed in Sect. 4.2.2, attempts to recon-
struct an inclusive secondary vertex, while the JetFitter
algorithm [25], presented in Sect. 4.2.3, aims to reconstruct
the full b-t o c-hadron decay chain. These algorithms, ﬁrst
introduced during Run 1 [5], beneﬁt from improvements and
a new tuning for Run 2. To maximise the b-tagging per-
formance, low-level algorithm results are combined using
multivariate classiﬁers. To this end, two high-level tagging
algorithms have been developed. The ﬁrst one,MV2 [23], is
based on a boosted decision tree (BDT) discriminant, while
the second one, DL1 [23], is based on a deep feed-forward
neural network (NN). These two algorithms are presented in
Sects. 4.3.1 and 4.3.2, respectively.
4.1 Training and tuning samples
The new tuning and training strategies of theb-tagging algo-
rithms for Run 2 are based on the use of a hybrid sample
composed of t ¯t and Z
′ simulated events. Onlyt ¯t decays with
at least one lepton from a subsequent W -boson decay are
considered in order to ensure a sufﬁciently large fraction of
c-jets in the event whilst maintaining a jet multiplicity pro-
ﬁle similar to that in most analyses. A dedicated sample of
Z
′ decaying into hadronic jet pairs is included to optimise
the b-tagging performance at high jet pT. The cross-section
of the hard-scattering process is modiﬁed by applying an
event-by-event weighting factor to broaden the natural width
of the resonance and widen the transverse momentum dis-
tribution of the jets produced in the hadronic decays up to a
jet p
T of 1.5 TeV. The branching fractions of the decays are
set to be one-third each for thebb, cc and light-ﬂavour quark
pairs to give apT spectrum uniformly populated by jets of all
ﬂavours. The hybrid sample is obtained by selecting b-jets
from t ¯t events if the corresponding b-hadron pT is below
250 GeV and from the Z′ sample if above, with a similar
strategy applied forc-jets and light-ﬂavour jets. More details
about the production of the t ¯t simulated sample, referred to
as the baseline t ¯t sample in the following, and the Z′ simu-
lated sample are given in Sect.5. Events with at least one jet
are selected, excluding the jets overlapping with a generator-
level electron originating from a W -o r Z-boson decay.
4.2 Low-level b-tagging algorithms
4.2.1 Algorithms based on impact parameters
There are two complementary impact parameter-based algo-
rithms, IP2D and IP3D [23]. The IP2D tagger makes use
of the signed transverse impact parameter signiﬁcance of
tracks to construct a discriminating variable, whereas IP3D
uses both the track signed transverse and the longitudinal
impact parameter signiﬁcance in a two-dimensional template
to account for their correlation. Probability density func-
tions (pdf) obtained from reference histograms of the signed
transverse and longitudinal impact parameter signiﬁcances of
tracks associated with b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets are
derived from MC simulation. The pdfs are computed in exclu-
sive categories that depend on the hit pattern of the tracks to
increase the discriminating power. The pdfs are used to calcu-
late ratios of theb-jet, c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities
on a per-track basis. Log-likelihood ratio (LLR) discrimi-
nants are then deﬁned as the sum of the per-track probability
ratios for each jet-ﬂavour hypothesis, e.g.∑
N
i=1 log( pb/ pu)
for the b-jet and light-ﬂavour jet hypotheses, where N is the
number of tracks associated with the jet and pb ( pu)i st h e
template pdf for the b-jet (light-ﬂavour jet) hypothesis. The
ﬂavour probabilities of the different tracks contributing to the
sum are assumed to be independent of each other. In addition
to the LLR separatingb-jets from light-ﬂavour jets, two extra
LLR functions are deﬁned to separate b-jets from c-jets and
c-jets from light-ﬂavour jets, respectively. These three like-
lihood discriminants for both the IP2D and IP3D algorithms
are used as inputs to the high-level taggers.
Both theIP2D and IP3D algorithms beneﬁted from a com-
plete retuning prior to the 2017–2018 ATLAS data taking
period [23]. In particular, a reoptimisation of the track cat-
egory deﬁnitions was performed, allowing the IBL hit pat-
tern expectations and the next innermost layer information
to be fully exploited. The rejection of tracks originating from
photon conversions, long-lived particles decays (K
s, /Lambda1) and
interactions with detector material by the secondary vertex
123

===== PAGE 5 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 5 of 36 970
algorithms has also been improved. An additional set of new
template pdfs was also produced using a 50%/50% mixture
of t ¯t and Z
′ simulated events for extra track-categories with
no hits in the ﬁrst two layers, which are populated by long-
lived b-hadrons traversing the ﬁrst layers before they decay.
The t ¯t sample is used to populate all remaining categories.
4.2.2 Secondary vertex ﬁnding algorithm
The secondary vertex tagging algorithm, SV1 [24], recon-
structs a single displaced secondary vertex in a jet. The recon-
struction starts from identifying the possible two-track ver-
tices built with all tracks associated with the jet, while reject-
ing tracks that are compatible with the decay of long-lived
particles ( K
s or /Lambda1), photon conversions or hadronic inter-
actions with the detector material. The SV1 algorithm runs
iteratively on all tracks contributing to the cleaned two-tack
vertices, trying to ﬁt one secondary vertex. In each iteration,
the track-to-vertex association is evaluated using a χ2 test.
The track with the largest χ2 is removed and the vertex ﬁt
is repeated until an acceptable vertexχ2 and a vertex invari-
ant mass less than 6 GeV are obtained. With this approach,
the decay products from b- and c-hadrons are assigned to a
single common secondary vertex.
Several reﬁnements in the track and vertex selection were
made prior to the 2016–2017 ATLAS data taking period to
improve the performance of the algorithm, resulting in an
increased pile-up rejection and an overall enhancement of the
performance at high jetp
T [24]. Among the various algorithm
improvements, additional track-cleaning requirements are
applied for jets in the high-pseudorapidity region (|η|≥ 1.5)
to mitigate the negative inﬂuence of the increasing amount of
detector material on the secondary vertex ﬁnding efﬁciency.
The fake-vertex rate is also better controlled by limiting the
algorithm to only consider the 25 highest- p
T tracks in the
jets, which preserves all reconstructed tracks from b-hadron
decays, whilst limiting the inﬂuence of additional tracks in
the jet. The selection of two-track vertex candidates prior
to the χ2–ﬁt was also reoptimised. Extra candidate-cleaning
requirements were introduced to further reduce the number of
fake vertices and material interactions, such as the rejection
of two-track vertex candidates with an invariant mass greater
than 6 GeV, which are not likely to originate from b- and c-
hadron decays. Eight discriminating variables, including the
number of tracks associated with theSV1 vertex, the invariant
mass of the secondary vertex, its energy fraction (deﬁned as
the total energy of all the tracks associated with the secondary
vertex divided by the energy of all the tracks associated with
the jet), and the three-dimensional decay length signiﬁcance
are used as inputs to the high-level taggers. Theb-tagging per-
formance of theSV1 algorithm is evaluated using a LLR dis-
criminant based on pdfs for the b-jet, c-jet and light-ﬂavour
jet hypotheses computed from three-dimensional histograms
built from three SV1 output variables: the vertex mass, the
energy fraction and the number of two-track vertices.
4.2.3 Topological multi-vertex ﬁnding algorithm
The topological multi-vertex algorithm, JetFitter [25],
exploits the topological structure of weak b- and c-hadron
decays inside the jet and tries to reconstruct the fullb-hadron
decay chain. A modiﬁed Kalman ﬁlter [ 26]i su s e dt oﬁ n d
a common line on which the primary, bottom and charm
vertices lie, approximating the b-hadron ﬂight path as well
as the vertex positions. With this approach, it is possible to
resolve the b- and c-hadron vertices even when a single track
is attached to them.
Several improvements [25], prior to the 2017-2018 ATLAS
data taking period, have been introduced in the current ver-
sion of the JetFitter algorithm. These include, a reoptimi-
sation of the track selection to better mitigate the effect of
pile-up tracks, an improvement in the rejection of material
interactions, and the introduction of a vertex-mass dependent
selection during the decay chain ﬁt to increase the efﬁciency
for tertiary vertex reconstruction. Eight discriminating vari-
ables, including the track multiplicity at the JetFitter dis-
placed vertices, the invariant mass of tracks associated with
these vertices, their energy fraction and their average three-
dimensional decay length signiﬁcance, are used as inputs
to the high-level taggers. The b-tagging performance of the
JetFitter algorithm is evaluated using a LLR discriminant
based on likelihood functions combining pdfs extracted from
some of the JetFitter output variables (vertex mass, energy
fraction and decay length signiﬁcance) and parameterised for
each of the three jet ﬂavours.
4.3 High-level tagging algorithms
4.3.1 MV2
The MV2 algorithm [ 23] consists of a boosted decision
tree (BDT) algorithm that combines the outputs of the low-
level tagging algorithms described in Sect. 4.2 and listed
in Table 1. The BDT algorithm is trained using the ROOT
Toolkit for Multivariate Data Analysis (TMV A) [27]o nt h e
hybrid t ¯t +
Z′ sample. The kinematic properties of the jets,
namely pT and |η|, are included in the training in order to
take advantage of the correlations with the other input vari-
ables. However, to avoid differences in the kinematic distri-
butions of signal ( b-jets) and background ( c-jets and light-
ﬂavour jets) being used to discriminate between the different
jet ﬂavours, the b-jets and c-jets are reweighted in p
T and
|η| to match the spectrum of the light-ﬂavour jets. No kine-
matic reweighting is applied at the evaluation stage of the
multivariate classiﬁer. For training, the c-jet fraction in the
background sample is set to 7%, with the remainder com-
123

===== PAGE 6 =====
970 Page 6 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
Table 1 Input variables used by the MV2 and the DL1 algorithms. The JetFitter c-tagging variables are only used by the DL1 algorithm
Input Variable Description
Kinematics pT Jet pT
η Jet |η|
IP2D/IP3D log (Pb/Plight) Likelihood ratio between the b-jet and light-ﬂavour jet hypotheses
log(Pb/Pc) Likelihood ratio between the b-a n dc-jet hypotheses
log(Pc/Plight) Likelihood ratio between the c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet hypotheses
SV1 m(SV) Invariant mass of tracks at the secondary vertex assuming pion mass
fE (SV) Energy fraction of the tracks associated with the secondary vertex
NTrkAtVtx(SV) Number of tracks used in the secondary vertex
N2TrkVtx(SV) Number of two-track vertex candidates
Lxy (SV) Transverse distance between the primary and secondary vertex
Lxyz (SV) Distance between the primary and the secondary vertex
Sxyz (SV) Distance between the primary and the secondary vertex divided by its uncertainty
/Delta1R( ⃗pjet, ⃗pvtx)(SV) /Delta1R between the jet axis and the direction of the secondary vertex relative
to the primary vertex
JetFitter m(JF) Invariant mass of tracks from displaced vertices
fE (JF) Energy fraction of the tracks associated with the displaced vertices
/Delta1R( ⃗pjet, ⃗pvtx)(JF) /Delta1R between the jet axis and the vectorial sum of momenta of all tracks
attached to displaced vertices
Sxyz (JF) Signiﬁcance of the average distance between PV and displaced vertices
NTrkAtVtx(JF) Number of tracks from multi-prong displaced vertices
N2TrkVtx(JF) Number of two-track vertex candidates (prior to decay chain ﬁt)
N1-trk vertices (JF) Number of single-prong displaced vertices
N≥2-trk vertices (JF) Number of multi-prong displaced vertices
JetFitter c-tagging Lxyz (2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Distance of 2nd or 3rd vertex from PV
Lxy (2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Transverse displacement of the 2nd or 3rd vertex
mTrk(2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Invariant mass of tracks associated with 2nd or 3rd vertex
ETrk(2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Energy fraction of the tracks associated with 2nd or 3rd vertex
fE (2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Fraction of charged jet energy in 2nd or 3rd vertex
NTrkAtVtx(2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Number of tracks associated with 2nd or 3rd vertex
Y min
trk , Y max
trk , Y avg
trk (2nd/3rdvtx)(JF) Min., max. and avg. track rapidity
of tracks at 2nd or 3rd vertex
posed of light-ﬂavour jets. This allows the charm rejection to
be enhanced whilst preserving a high light-ﬂavour jet rejec-
tion. The BDT training hyperparameters of theMV2 tagging
algorithm are listed in Table 2. They have been optimised
to provide the best separation power between the signal and
the background. The output discriminant of the MV2 algo-
rithm for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets evaluated with
the baseline t ¯t simulated events are shown in Fig. 1a.
4.3.2 DL1
The second high-level b-tagging algorithm, DL1 [23], is
based on a deep feed-forward neural network (NN) trained
using Keras [28] with theTheano [29] backend and theAdam
optimiser [30]. The DL1 NN has a multidimensional output
corresponding to the probabilities for a jet to be a b-jet, a c-
Table 2 List of optimised hyperparameters used in the MV2 tagging
algorithm
Hyperparameter Value
Number of trees 1000
Depth 30
Minimum node size 0.05%
Cuts 200
Boosting type Gradient boost
Shrinkage 0.1
Bagged sample fraction 0.5
jet or a light-ﬂavour jet. The topology of the output consists
of a mixture of fully connected hidden and Maxout layers
[31]. The input variables toDL1 consist of those used for the
MV2 algorithm with the addition of theJetFitter c-tagging
123

===== PAGE 7 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 7 of 36 970
1− 0.8− 0.6− 0.4− 0.2− 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
MV2D
4−10
3−10
2−10
1−10
1
10
Fraction of jets / 0.05
t = 13 TeV, ts
ATLAS  Simulation
b-jets
c-jets
Light-flavour jets
(a)
8− 6− 4− 2− 02468 1 0 1 2
DL1D
7−10
6−10
5−10
4−10
3−10
2−10
1−10
1
10
Fraction of jets / 0.50
t = 13 TeV, ts
ATLAS  Simulation
b-jets
c-jets
Light-flavour jets
(b)
Fig. 1 Distribution of the output discriminant of the (a) MV2 and (b) DL1 b-tagging algorithms for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the
baseline t ¯t simulated events
Table 3 List of optimised hyperparameters used in the DL1 tagging
algorithm
Hyperparameter Value
Number of input variables 28
Number of hidden layers 8
Number of nodes [per layer] [78, 66, 57, 48,
36, 24, 12, 6]
Number of Maxout layers [position] 3 [1, 2, 6]
Number of parallel layers per Maxout layer 25
Number of training epochs 240
Learning rate 0.0005
Training minibatch size 500
variables listed in Table 1. The latter relate to the dedicated
properties of the secondary and tertiary vertices (distance
to the primary vertex, invariant mass and number of tracks,
energy, energy fraction, and rapidity of the tracks associated
with the secondary and tertiary vertices). A jet p
T and |η|
reweighting similar to the one used for MV2 is performed.
The DL1 algorithm parameters, listed in Table 3, include
the architecture of the NN, the number of training epochs,
the learning rates and training batch size. All of these are
optimised in order to maximise the b-tagging performance.
Batch normalisation [32] is added by default since it is found
to improve the performance.
Training with multiple output nodes offers additional ﬂex-
ibility when constructing the ﬁnal output discriminant by
combining the b-jet, c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities.
Since all ﬂavours are treated equally during training, the
trained network can be used for bothb-jet andc-jet tagging. In
addition, the use of a multi-class network architecture pro-
vides the DL1 algorithm with a smaller memory footprint
than BDT-based algorithms. The ﬁnal DL1 b-tagging dis-
criminant is deﬁned as:
D
DL1 = ln
( pb
fc · pc + (1 − fc) · plight
)
,
where pb, pc, plight and fc represent respectively the b-jet,
c-jet and light-ﬂavour jet probabilities, and the effective c-
jet fraction in the background training sample. Using this
approach, the c-jet fraction in the background can be cho-
sen a posteriori in order to optimise the performance of the
algorithm. An optimised c-jet fraction of 8% is used to eval-
uate the performance of the DL1 b-tagging algorithm in this
paper.
The output discriminants of theDL1 b-tagging algorithms
for b-jets, c-jets and light-ﬂavour jets in the baseline t ¯t sim-
ulated events are shown in Fig. 1b.
4.4 Algorithm performance
The evaluation of the performance of the algorithms is car-
ried out usingb-jet tagging single-cut operating points (OPs).
These are based on a ﬁxed selection requirement on the
b-tagging algorithm discriminant distribution ensuring a spe-
ciﬁc b-jet tagging efﬁciency, ε
b,f o rt h e b-jets present in
the baseline t ¯t simulated sample. The selections used to
deﬁne the single-cut OPs of the MV2 and the DL1 algo-
rithms, as well as the corresponding c-jet, τ-jet and light-
ﬂavour jet rejections, are shown in Table 4.T h e MV2
and the DL1 discriminant distributions are also divided
into ﬁve ‘pseudo-continuous’ bins, (Ok)k=1...5, delimited
by the selections used to deﬁne the b-jet tagging single-cut
OPs for 85%, 77%, 70% and 60% efﬁciency, and bounded
123

===== PAGE 8 =====
970 Page 8 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
Table 4 Selection and c-jet, τ-jet and light-ﬂavour jet rejections corresponding to the differentb-jet tagging efﬁciency single-cut operating points
for the MV2 and the DL1 b-tagging algorithms, evaluated on the baseline t ¯t events
ϵb MV2 DL1
Selection Rejection Selection Rejection
c-jet τ-jet Light-ﬂavour jet c-jet τ-jet Light-ﬂavour jet
60% > 0.94 23 140 1200 > 2.74 27 220 1300
70% > 0.83 8.9 36 300 > 2.02 9.4 43 390
77% > 0.64 4.9 15 110 > 1.45 4.9 14 130
85% > 0.11 2.7 6.1 25 > 0.46 2.6 3.9 29
(a) (b)
Fig. 2 The (a) light-ﬂavour jet and (b) c-jet rejections versus the b-jet tagging efﬁciency for the IP3D, SV1, JetFitter, MV2 and DL1 b-tagging
algorithms evaluated on the baseline t ¯t events
by the trivial 100% and 0% selections. The value of the
pdf in each bin is called the b-jet tagging probability and
labelled Pb in the following. The b-jet tagging efﬁciency
of the εb = X% single-cut OP can then be deﬁned as
the sum of the b-jet tagging probabilities in the range
[X%,0%].
The light-ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejections as a function of
the b-jet tagging efﬁciency are shown in Fig. 2 for the vari-
ous low- and high-level b-tagging algorithms. This demon-
strates the advantage of combining the information provided
by the low-level taggers, where improvements in the light-
ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejections by factors of around 10 and
2.5, respectively, are observed at the ϵb = 70% single-cut
OP of the high-level algorithms compared to low-level algo-
rithms. This ﬁgure also illustrates the different b-jet tagging
efﬁciency range accessible with each low-level algorithm and
thereby their complementarity in the multivariate combina-
tions, with the performance of the DL1 and MV2 discrim-
inants found to be similar. The two algorithms tag a highly
correlated sample of b-jets, where the relative fraction of
jet exclusively tagged by each algorithm is around 3% at
the ε
b = 70% single-cut OP. The relative fractions of light-
ﬂavour jets exclusively mis-tagged by the MV2 or the DL1
algorithms at the εb = 70% single-cut OP reach 0.2% and
0.1%, respectively.
However, the additional JetFitter c-tagging variables
used by DL1 bring around 30% and 10% improvements in
the light-ﬂavour jet and c-jet rejections, respectively, at the
ϵb = 70% single-cut OP compared to MV2.
123

===== PAGE 9 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 9 of 36 970
5 Data and simulated samples
In order to use data to evaluate the performance of the high-
level b-tagging algorithms, a sample of events enriched int ¯t
dileptonic decays is selected.
The analysis is performed with a pp collision data sam-
ple collected at a centre-of-mass energy of √ s = 13 TeV
during the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, corresponding to an
integrated luminosity of 80 .5f b−1 and a mean number of
pp interactions per bunch crossing of 31.9. The uncertainty
in the integrated luminosity is 2.0% [33], obtained using the
LUCID-2 detector [34] for the primary luminosity measure-
ments. All events used were recorded during periods when
all relevant ATLAS detector components were functioning
normally. The dataset was collected using triggers requiring
the presence of a single, high- p
T electron or muon, with pT
thresholds that yield an approximately constant efﬁciency for
leptons passing an ofﬂine selection of pT ≥ 28 GeV.
The baselinet ¯t full simulation sample was produced using
PowhegBox v2 [35–38] where the ﬁrst-gluon-emission cut-
off scale parameter hdamp is set to 1 .5mt , with mtop =
172.5 GeV used for the top-quark mass. PowhegBox was
interfaced to Pythia 8.230 [39] with the A14 set of tuned
parameters [40] and NNPDF30NNLO (NNPDF2.3LO)[ 41,
42] parton distribution functions in the matrix elements (par-
ton shower). This set-up was found to produce the best mod-
elling of the multiplicity of additional jets and both the indi-
vidual top-quark and t ¯t system p
T [43].
Alternative t ¯t simulation samples were generated using
PowhegBox v2 interfaced to Herwig 7.0.4 [44] with the
H7-UE-MMHT set of tuned parameters. The effects of
initial- and ﬁnal-state radiation (ISR, FSR) are explored by
reweighting the baseline t ¯t events in a manner that reduces
(reduces and increases) initial (ﬁnal) parton shower radi-
ation [ 43] and by using an alternative PowhegBox v2 +
Pythia 8.230 sample with h
damp set to 3 mtop and parame-
ter variation group Var3 (described in Ref. [43]) increased,
leading to increased ISR.
The majority of events with at least one ‘fake’ lepton in
the selected sample arise from t ¯t production where only one
of the W bosons, which originated from a top-quark decay,
decays leptonically. These fake leptons come from several
sources, including non-prompt leptons produced from bot-
tom or charm hadron decays, electrons arising from a photon
conversion, jets misidentiﬁed as electrons, or muons pro-
duced from in-ﬂight pion or kaon decays. This background
is also modelled using thet ¯t production described above. The
rate of events with two fake leptons is found to be negligible.
Non-t ¯t processes, which are largely subdominant in this
analysis, can be classiﬁed into two types: those with two
real prompt leptons from W or Z decays (dominant) and
those where at least one of the reconstructed lepton candi-
dates is ‘fake’ (subdominant). Backgrounds containing two
real prompt leptons include single top production in asso-
ciation with a W boson ( Wt ), diboson production ( WW ,
WZ , ZZ ) where at least two leptons are produced in the
electroweak boson decays, and Z+jets, with Z decaying
into leptons. The Wt single top production was modelled
using PowhegBox v2 interfaced to Pythia 8.230 using
the ‘diagram removal’ scheme [ 45,46] with the A14 set of
tuned parameters and theNNPDF30NNLO (NNPDF2.3LO)
[41,42] parton distribution functions in the matrix elements
(parton shower). Diboson production with additional jets
was simulated using Sherpa [47,48] v2.2.1 (for events
where one boson decays hadronically) or Sherpa v2.2.2
(for events where no bosons decay hadronically), using
the PDF set NNPDF30NNLO [41]. This includes the 4 ℓ,
ℓℓℓν, ℓℓνν, ℓννν,
ℓℓqq and ℓνqq ﬁnal states, which cover
WW , WZ and ZZ production including off-shell Z con-
tributions. Z+jets production (including both Z → ττand
Z → ee/μμ) was modelled using Sherpa v2.2.1 with PDF
set NNPDF30NNLO. Processes with one real lepton include
t-channel and s-channel single top production [ 49]. These
processes were modelled with the same generator and parton
shower combination as the Wt channel. W +jets production,
with the W boson decaying into eν, μν or τνwith the τ-
lepton decaying leptonically, was modelled in a similar way
to the Z+jets production described above.
Alternative samples of non- t ¯t processes include the Wt
single top production using PowhegBox v2 interfaced to
Herwig 7.0.4. The effects of ISR and FSR are evaluated
by reweighting the baseline single-top events in a manner
that either reduces or increases parton shower radiation.
An additional Wt sample using PowhegBox v2 interfaced
to Pythia 8.230 with the alternative ‘diagram subtraction’
scheme [45,46] is used to investigate the impact of the inter-
ference betweent ¯t and Wt production. Uncertainties in dibo-
son and Z+jets production are estimated by reweighting the
baseline samples, whereas uncertainties in processes with
one real lepton are evaluated directly from data, as described
later in Sect. 8.
As described in Sect. 4, the new Run 2
b-tagging algo-
rithm training strategy is based on the use of a hybrid sample
composed of both the baseline t ¯t event sample and a dedi-
cated sample of Z′ decaying into hadronic jet pairs. This Z′
sample was generated using Pythia 8.2.12 with the A14 set
of tuned parameters for the underlying event and the leading-
order NNPDF2.3LO [42] parton distribution functions.
The Evtgen [50] package was used to handle the decay
of heavy-ﬂavour hadrons for all samples except for those
generated with the Sherpa generator, for which the default
Sherpa conﬁguration recommended by the Sherpa authors
was used. All MC events have additional overlaid minimum-
bias interactions generated with Pythia 8.160 with the A3
set of tunes parameters [ 51] and NNPDF2.3LO parton dis-
tribution functions to simulate pile-up background and are
123

===== PAGE 10 =====
970 Page 10 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
weighted to reproduce the observed distribution of the aver-
age number of interactions per bunch crossing of the cor-
responding data sample. The nominal MC samples were
processed through the full ATLAS detector simulation [ 52]
based on GEANT4 [53], but most samples used for system-
atic uncertainty evaluation were processed with a faster sim-
ulation making use of parameterised showers in the calorime-
ters [54]. The simulated events were reconstructed using the
same algorithms as the data.
6 Event selection and classiﬁcation
A sample of events enriched int ¯t dileptonic decays is selected
by requiring exactly two well-identiﬁed lepton candidates
and two jets to be present in each event. Events are further
classiﬁed on the basis of two topological variables to control
processes including non-b-jets. The lepton deﬁnition, and the
event selection and classiﬁcation are described in this section.
6.1 Lepton object deﬁnition
In addition to the objects reconstructed for b-tagging,
described in Sect. 3, the event selection for the efﬁciency
measurement requires electron and muon candidates, deﬁned
as follows.
Electron candidates are reconstructed from an isolated
energy deposit in the electromagnetic calorimeter matched
to an ID track [ 55]. Electrons are selected for inclu-
sion in the analysis within the ﬁducial region of trans-
verse energy E
T ≥ 28 GeV and |η| < 2.47. Candidates
within the transition region between the barrel and end-
cap electromagnetic calorimeters, 1.37 ≤| η| < 1.52, are
removed in order to avoid large trigger efﬁciency uncer-
tainties in the turn-on region of the lowest p
T trigger. A
tight likelihood-based electron identiﬁcation requirement
is used to further suppress the background from multi-
jet production. Isolation criteria are used to reject can-
didates coming from sources other than prompt decays
from massive bosons (hadrons faking an electron signa-
ture, heavy-ﬂavour decays or photon conversions). Scale
factors (SFs), of order unity, derived inZ → e
+e− events
are applied to simulated events to account for differences
in reconstruction, identiﬁcation and isolation efﬁciencies
between data and simulation. Electron energies are cali-
brated using the Z mass peak.
Muon candidates are reconstructed by combining tracks
found in the ID with tracks found in the muon spec-
trometer [ 56]. Muons are selected for inclusion in the
analysis within the ﬁducial region of transverse momen-
tum p
T ≥ 28 GeV and |η| < 2.5. If the event contains
a muon reconstructed from high hit multiplicities in the
muon spectrometer due to very energetic punch-through
jets or from badly measured inner detector tracks in jets
wrongly matched to muon spectrometer track segments,
the whole event is vetoed. A tight muon identiﬁcation
requirement is applied to the muon candidates to further
suppress the background. Isolation selections similar to
the ones applied to the electron candidates are imposed to
reject candidates coming from sources other than prompt
massive boson decays (hadrons faking a muon signature
or heavy-ﬂavour decays). SFs of order unity, similar to
those for electrons and derived in Z → μ
+μ− events,
are applied to account for differences in reconstruction,
identiﬁcation and isolation efﬁciencies between data and
simulated events. Muon momenta are calibrated using
the Z mass peak.
If electrons, muons or jets overlap with each other, all
but one object must be removed from the event. The dis-
tance metric used to deﬁne overlapping objects is deﬁned as
/Delta1R
′ =
√
(/Delta1φ)2 + (/Delta1y)2 where /Delta1y represents the rapidity
difference. To prevent double-counting of electron energy
deposits as jets, jets within /Delta1R′ = 0.2 of a reconstructed
electron candidate are removed. If the nearest remaining jet
is within /Delta1R
′ = 0.4 of the electron, the electron is discarded.
To reduce the background from muons from heavy-ﬂavour
decays inside jets, muons are required to be separated by
/Delta1R
′ ≥ 0.4 from the nearest jet. In cases where a muon and a
jet are reconstructed within/Delta1R′ < 0.4, the muon is removed
if the jet has at least three associated tracks; the jet is removed
otherwise. This avoids an inefﬁciency for high-energy muons
undergoing signiﬁcant energy loss in the calorimeter.
6.2 Event selection
To be considered in this analysis, events must have at least
one lepton identiﬁed in the trigger system. This triggered
lepton must match an ofﬂine electron or muon candidate.
For each applicable trigger, scale factors are applied to the
simulation in order to correct for known differences in trigger
efﬁciencies between the simulation and collision data [11].
In order to reject backgrounds with fewer than two prompt
leptons, exactly two reconstructed leptons with opposite
charges are required. Contributions from backgrounds with
Z bosons are reduced by requiring that one lepton is an elec-
tron and the other is a muon. The residual contribution from
Z → ττevents, which populate the low mass region, is fur-
ther reduced by considering only events withm
eμ ≥ 50 GeV.
The contribution from t ¯t events with light-ﬂavour jets from
ISR or FSR or fromW bosons is reduced by requiring exactly
two reconstructed jets.
Since the aim of the study is to measure the b-jet tagging
efﬁciency, it is useful to label simulated events according
to the generator-level ﬂavour of the two selected jets, fol-
123

===== PAGE 11 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 11 of 36 970
(a) (b)
Fig. 3 Distribution of the jet (a) pT and (b) ηin the events passing the selection. Simulated events are split into physics process. The ratio panels
show the data-to-simulation ratio as well as the fraction of t ¯t events among the simulated events
lowing the deﬁnitions introduced in Sect. 3, instead of the
physics process they originate from. Events with two b-jets
(non-b-jets) are labelled bb (ll). Events with one selected b-
jet and one non- b-jet are labelled bl events if the b-jet pT
is larger than the non- b-jet pT and lb in the opposite case.
According to the simulation, more than 90% of the non-b-jets
are light-ﬂavour jets, the rest being composed of c-jets, and
more than 95% of theb-jets originate from a top-quark decay.
The fraction of τ-jets is predicted to be negligible.
In order to create bb, bl, lb and ll-enriched regions in the
selected sample, each of the two leptons is paired with a jet in
an exclusive way to determine whether they originate from
the same top-quark decay. The pairing is performed such that
it minimises (m
2
j1,ℓi + m2
j2,ℓ j ), where j1( j2) is the highest-
pT (second highest-pT)j e t ,ℓi, j are the two leptons andm j1,ℓ
(m j2,ℓ) is the invariant mass of the system including the high-
est (second highest) pT jet and its associated lepton. Choos-
ing the pairing that mimimises this quantity relies on the fact
that if the pairs of objects are from the same original parti-
cles then they are likely to have similar masses. Using the
minimum of squared masses penalises asymmetric pairings
with one high-mass lepton–jet pair, as well as combinations
including two very high invariant masses, which are unlikely
for those arising from top-quark decay. Events are required
to have m
j1,ℓ ≥ 20 GeV and m j2,ℓ ≥ 20 GeV in order to
avoid conﬁgurations in which a soft jet and a soft lepton are
close to each other, which are not well described by the sim-
ulation. The event classiﬁcation based on these variables is
described in more detail in the next section.
According to the simulation, about 85% of the events pass-
ing the selection are dileptonict ¯t events, about 65% of which
are bb events. Single top production in association with aW
boson accounts for 8% of the events, with about 30% of these
events containing two selected b-jets. Diboson and Z+jet
production represent respectively about 5% and 2% of the
selected events, 85% of these events being ll events. Events
originating from W +jets production are negligible (< 0.1%).
The main source of non- b-jets therefore originates from t ¯t
bl or lb events, i.e. dileptonic t ¯t events with a high-p
T light-
ﬂavour jet originating from ISR or FSR.
Figure 3 shows the level of agreement between data and
simulation as a function of thepT and ηof the selected jets as
well as the expected fraction of t ¯t events. The overall level
of agreement between data and simulation is fairly good,
although some mismodelling is present at high jet pT, possi-
bly related to the modelling of the top-quark pT [57], which
motivates the extraction of the b-jet tagging efﬁciency in jet
pT bins. The distribution of the discriminant of the MV2
algorithm for events passing the selection is shown in Fig.4.
Generally, good modelling is observed, indicating similar
b-jet tagging efﬁciencies in data and simulation.
123

===== PAGE 12 =====
970 Page 12 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
Fig. 4 Distribution of the output discriminant of the MV2 algorithm
for the jets in events passing the selection. Simulated events are clas-
siﬁed according to the ﬂavour composition of the two jets, where the
ﬁrst term in each legend entry represents the ﬂavour of the jet which
is plotted (b or l) and the following term in parenthesis represents the
ﬂavour composition of the event ( bb, bl + lb or ll). The ratio panels
show the data-to-simulation ratio as well as the fraction of bb events
among the simulated events
6.3 Event classiﬁcation
The distributions of the m j1,ℓ and m j2,ℓ observables are
shown in Fig.5. In the case oft ¯t events with twob-jets, both
m j1,ℓ and m j2,ℓ have an upper limit aroundmt = 172.5G e V
and are usually signiﬁcantly smaller due to the undetected
neutrino. This is generally not the case forbl, lb and ll events,
which result in high m j1,ℓ and/or m j2,ℓ values more often
at high jet pT. Therefore, the m j1,ℓ and m j2,ℓ observables
discriminate between bb, bl, lb and ll events while being
uncorrelated with the b-tagging discriminants, which do not
make use of leptons outside jets.
The selected events are classiﬁed into 45 different bins
according to the pT of the two jets, allowing the b-jet tag-
ging efﬁciency to be measured as a function of the jet pT.
In addition, in each leading jet pT, subleading jet pT bin
( pT,1, pT,2), the events are further classiﬁed into four bins
according to the m j1,ℓ and m j2,ℓ values:
• m j1,ℓ, m j2,ℓ < 175 GeV, signal region (SR): high bb
purity region used to measure theb-jet tagging efﬁciency,
• m j1,ℓ, m j2,ℓ ≥ 175 GeV, ll control region (CRLL): high
ll purity control region used to constrain the bb, bl, lb
and ll fractions in the SR,
• m j1,ℓ < 175 GeV, m j2,ℓ ≥ 175 GeV, bl control region
(CRBL): high bl purity control region used to constrain
the bb, bl, lb and ll fractions in the SR,
• m j1,ℓ ≥ 175 GeV, m j2,ℓ < 175 GeV, lb control region
(CRLB): high lb purity control region used to constrain
the bb, bl, lb and ll fractions in the SR.
Finally, the events in the SR are further classiﬁed as a func-
tion of the pseudo-continuous binnedb-tagging discriminant
of the two jets, denoted w1 and w2, as deﬁned in Sect. 4.4.
These classiﬁcations result in a total of 1260 orthogonal
categories. A schematic diagram illustrating the event cat-
egorisation is shown in Fig. 6.T h e bb event purity in the
signal regions for the different pT,1, pT,2 bins is shown in
Fig. 7. The lowest purity (19%) occurs when both jets have
very low pT; however, the majority of bins have a bb event
purity greater than 70% and the highest purity (where both
jets have high p
T) reaches 93%. The CRLL,C RBL and CRLB
control regions are enriched in their targeted backgrounds
relative to the corresponding SR. Their purity in ll, bl and
lb events varies across the pT,1, pT,2 plane and ranges in the
simulation from 30% to 90% (CRLL), 32% to 79% (CRBL)
and 20% to 74% (CRLB), respectively. The dominant back-
ground in each SR always beneﬁts from a high-purity (i.e.
≥ 50%) control region.
7 Extraction of b-jet tagging efﬁciency
Once events have been selected and classiﬁed, the measure-
ment of theb-jet tagging probabilities is performed. The pre-
cision of the previous ATLAS measurement [6] was limited
by the uncertainty in the fractions of bb, bl, lb and ll events
in the selected sample, which is driven by the modelling of
top-quark pair production. The main novelty of this work
in comparison to Ref. [ 6] lies in the measurement method,
which uses both signal and control region data to deﬁne a
joint log-likelihood function allowing the simultaneous esti-
mate of the b-jet tagging probabilities and ﬂavour compo-
sitions. This new technique leads to a reduction in the total
uncertainties by up to a factor of two, as discussed in Sect.8.
The general form of an extended binned log-likelihood
function, after dropping terms that do not depend on the
parameters to be estimated, is provided in Eq. (1):
log L
(
ν
tot, ˆ/Theta1
)
=− νtot +
N∑
i
ni logνi
(
νtot, ˆ/Theta1
)
, (1)
where νtot is the total expected number of events, ˆ/Theta1=
(/Theta11,...,/Theta1m) is the list of parameters to be estimated,
including the parameters of interest (POI) and nuisance
parameters, νi (ni ) is the number of expected (observed)
events in the bin i and N bins are considered in total. In
123

===== PAGE 13 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 13 of 36 970
(a) (b)
Fig. 5 Distribution of the(a) m j1,ℓ and (b) m j2,ℓ observables in events passing the selection. Simulated events are classiﬁed in terms of the ﬂavour
composition of the two jets. The ratio panels show the data-to-simulation ratio as well as the fraction of bb events among the simulated events
Fig. 6 Schematic illustration of the event categorisation. Events are
binned according to the pT of both the leading and subleading jet in
the event. In each of these bins, events are further assigned to control
(CR) and signal (SR) regions. The events in the SR are then classiﬁed
according to the b-tagging discriminant of the two jets
this work, the POIs are the b-jet tagging probabilities, Pb,
introduced in Sect. 4.4. They are deﬁned in this measure-
ment per pT bin, i.e. as the conditional probabilities for a
b-jet with a transverse momentum falling in one of the nine
pT bins (T m)m=1...9 of the measurement to have ab-tagging
discriminant w falling in one of the ﬁve pseudo-continuous
bins (Ok)k=1...5.T h e b-jet tagging efﬁciency of the single-
cut OP X in that jet pT bin, εb, relates to the POIs as outlined
below:
εb(X|T m) =
∑
Ok⊂ X
Pb(Ok|T m).
In each control region, the number of events in a given
pT,1, pT,2 bin (T m, T n) is written as the sum of the bb,
bl, lb and ll yields expected in that bin ( νm,n
bb , νm,n
bl , νm,n
lb ,
νm,n
ll ), corrected by pT,1, pT,2 dependent correction fac-
tors ( cm,n
bb , cm,n
bl , cm,n
lb , cm,n
ll ), forming the nuisance param-
eters:
νCR (T m, T n) = cm,n
bb νm,n
CR ,bb + cm,n
bl νm,n
CR ,bl + cm,n
lb νm,n
CR ,lb
+cm,n
ll νm,n
CR ,ll .
In each signal region, the events are further binned accord-
i n gt ot h eb-tagging discriminants of the two jets,w1,w2.T h e
123

===== PAGE 14 =====
970 Page 14 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
Fig. 7 Fraction of bb events in
the signal region as predicted by
the simulation as a function of
the leading and subleading jet
pT. Uncertainties are statistical
only
 0.4±
19.1
 0.4±
30.5
 0.3±
38.3
 0.2±
41.7
 0.3±
43.6
 0.3±
43.7
 0.4±
43.5
 0.6±
39.0
 1.6±
35.2
 0.6±
47.3
 0.2±
57.4
 0.2±
62.7
 0.3±
62.5
 0.3±
61.3
 0.5±
59.8
 0.7±
56.9
 1.8±
55.1
 0.2±
69.2
 0.1±
74.6
 0.2±
75.2
 0.2±
73.6
 0.4±
71.9
 0.6±
69.7
 1.3±
67.8
 0.2±
80.4
 0.2±
82.1
 0.2±
82.1
 0.3±
81.3
 0.4±
80.1
 1.2±
77.2
 0.2±
86.1
 0.2±
87.2
 0.3±
86.8
 0.4±
85.7
 1.1±
82.7
 0.3±
89.3
 0.3±
89.6
 0.4±
89.1
 1.0±
85.2
 0.4±
91.3
 0.3±
90.8
 0.9±
89.6
 0.4±
93.1
 0.6±
91.7
 1.0±
90.4
20-30 30-40 40-60 60-85 85-110110-140140-175175-250250-600
 [GeV]
T
Leading jet p
20-30
30-40
40-60
60-85
85-110
110-140
140-175
175-250
250-600
 [GeV]
T
Subleading jet p
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Fraction of bb events [%]
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
 POWHEG + PYTHIA 8tt
number of events expected in a given pT,1, pT,2, w1, w2 bin
(T m, T n, Ok , O p) is thus written:
νSR (T m, T n, Ok, O p)
= cm,n
bb νm,n
SR ,bb · Pb(Ok|T m) · Pb(O p|T n)
+ cm,n
bl νm,n
SR ,bl · Pb(Ok|T m) · Pl(O p|T n)
+ cm,n
lb νm,n
SR ,lb · Pl(Ok|T m) · Pb(O p|T n)
+ cm,n
ll νm,n
SR ,ll · Pl(Ok|T m) · Pl(O p|T n),
where Pl is the effective b-jet tagging probability of the
mix ofc-jets and light-ﬂavour jets predicted by the simulation
in each pT,1, pT,2 bin. The POIs and correction factors are
estimated by minimising the negative log-likelihood func-
tion deﬁned above with the MINUIT algorithm [ 58]. Both
the POIs and correction factors are free parameters during
the minimisation procedure. Signal and control region data
are provided as input as well as the Pl conditional probabil-
ities, which are estimated from the MC simulation corrected
to match data (see Sect. 1). The simulation is also used to
determine the bb, bl, lb and ll yield fractions according to
the type of region (SR, CRs), as the correction factors are
deﬁned as a function of p
T,1 and pT,2 only.
The extraction method is validated using pseudo-data gen-
erated with a known ﬂavour composition. This is created
by combining events from either nominal or alternative MC
simulation ﬂuctuated according to the statistical uncertainty
expected from the actual dataset. The input parameters of
the minimisation procedure are taken from the nominal MC
simulation in all cases. The size of the non-closure effects
observed when using pseudo-data based on the nominal and
alternative MC simulation are compared respectively with
the expected data statistical uncertainty (0.6–3.7%), and to
the sum in quadrature of the expected data statistical uncer-
tainty, the MC statistical uncertainty and the physics mod-
elling uncertainties quoted for the ﬁnal measurement (0.9–
5.4%). The non-closure effects are found to be within uncer-
tainties in each jet p
T bin such that no additional uncertainty
related to the signal extraction method is considered.
8 Uncertainties
Uncertainties affecting the measurement which originate
from statistical sources are considered together with sys-
tematic uncertainties related to the detector calibration and
physics modelling.
The data statistical uncertainty in the b-jet tagging prob-
abilities, and their bin-to-bin correlations, are obtained from
the error matrix returned by MINUIT [ 58] and propagated
to the b-jet tagging efﬁciencies via a basis transformation.
The data statistical uncertainty reaches about 4% (2%) for
jets within 20 ≤ p
T < 30 GeV (30≤ pT < 40 GeV), ranges
from 1% to 3% for jet pT ≥ 140 GeV and is below 1%
elsewhere.
The bootstrap resampling technique [59] is used to assess
the MC statistical uncertainty by creating an ensemble of
statistically equivalent measurements in which the weight
of each simulated event used in the nominal measurement
is multiplied by an additional term, randomly chosen for
each event from a Poisson distribution with a mean of one.
The standard deviation of the distribution of these measure-
ments is taken as the MC statistical uncertainty. This method
allows all correlations to be preserved and the uncertainty
in the value of any parameter to be extracted. One hundred
123

===== PAGE 15 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 15 of 36 970
bootstrap replicas of each simulated sample are used for this
evaluation. The MC statistical uncertainty in theb-jet tagging
efﬁciencies is found to be non-negligible only for jet pT ≤
40 GeV, where it reaches about 2% and 1% for jets within
20 GeV ≤ pT < 30 GeV and 30 GeV ≤ pT < 40 GeV,
respectively.
The systematic uncertainties are derived by varying a
parameter in the simulated events, repeating the complete
analysis with this varied parameter and taking the difference
between the updated measurement of the b-jet tagging efﬁ-
ciency or probability and the nominal measurement as the
(bin-wise correlated) uncertainty. For b-jet tagging efﬁcien-
cies, the bootstrap replicas of simulated events are then used
to evaluate the MC statistical uncertainty in each systematic
variation. Variations of the b-jet tagging efﬁciency that are
not statistically signiﬁcant undergo a bin-merging procedure
over an increasing number ofp
T bins to improve their signiﬁ-
cance. Following this procedure, only statistically signiﬁcant
variations are considered as systematic uncertainties.
Uncertainty sources related to the energy scale and res-
olution of hadronic jets [19] encompass both the modelling
of the detector response and the analysis techniques used
to derive the calibration. The impact of the jet energy scale
uncertainty reaches from 4 to 5% for jet p
T ≤ 30 GeV, 1%
for 30 GeV ≤ pT < 40 GeV, and is negligible elsewhere. It
is dominated by the prediction of the quark/gluon origin of
the light-ﬂavour jets and by the difference in their energy
response, as well as the difference in the calorimeter energy
response as a function ofη. The uncertainty originating from
the jet energy resolution is negligible. Uncertainty sources
related to the performance of the JVT algorithm [21], the b-
tagging performance for light-ﬂavour jets [ 8] and c-jets [7]
as well as the modelling of pile-up interactions were inves-
tigated and found to be negligible, as were lepton-related
uncertainties, including energy/momentum scale and resolu-
tion, identiﬁcation, isolation, trigger and track–vertex asso-
ciation efﬁciency.
The uncertainty in the physics modelling of top-quark
events is evaluated by changing the parton shower and hadro-
nisation model fromPythia 8t oHerwig 7 and increasing or
decreasing the amount of ISR and FSR withinPythia 8[ 43].
The uncertainties originating from parton distribution func-
tions (PDF) are quantiﬁed following the PDF4LHC recom-
mendations [60]. An additional source of uncertainty orig-
inates from the mismodelling of the interference between
single top Wt and t ¯t production. It is evaluated by switch-
ing the nominal single-top simulation sample, based on the
‘diagram removal’ scheme, to the one based on the ‘diagram
subtraction’ scheme [45]. The ﬁnal t ¯t modelling uncertainty
reaches 3% (2%) for jet p
T < 30 GeV (30 ≤ pT < 40 GeV)
and about 1% for pT ≥ 40 GeV. It is dominated at lowpT by
PDF and ISR/FSR variations whereas at higherpT the choice
of parton shower and hadronisation model is the dominant
contribution. The single-top uncertainty reaches about 3%
for jet pT < 30 GeV due to the parton shower and hadro-
nisation model variation, and 1% for jet pT ≥ 250 GeV,
where the uncertainty in the interference witht ¯t events is the
dominant contribution. It is below 1% elsewhere. The uncer-
tainties associated with the modelling of top-quark events
are reduced by up to a factor of two relative to the previous
ATLAS analysis [6] due to the new b-jet tagging efﬁciency
extraction method, which allows the bb event yield to be
determined at a precision of a few percent in eachp
T,1, pT,2
bin.
The uncertainty in the modelling of diboson and Z+jet
production [61,62] is evaluated by varying the total cross-
section and the factorisation and renormalisation scales for
these processes, as well as propagating the uncertainty from
the PDF. The total cross-section is kept constant when per-
forming the scale and PDF variations such that only the
shapes of the kinematic distributions are impacted. The total
cross-section is varied by± 6% (± 5%) for Z+jets (diboson)
production. The scale uncertainties are estimated simultane-
ously by varying the nominal values by a factor of two up
and down and taking the largest deviations from the nominal
predictions in each direction as uncertainties. PDF uncertain-
ties are evaluated using the 100 bootstrap replicas provided
by the NNPDF30NNLO [41] using the same method as out-
lined for the MC statistical uncertainty earlier in this section.
The ﬁnal diboson and Z+jets uncertainties are found to be
negligible in the entire range covered by the analysis.
The number of events with a selected muon not originating
from a Z-o r W -boson decay is predicted by the simulation to
be negligible after the event selection. This is due to the tight
muon identiﬁcation and isolation criteria applied. The num-
ber of events with a selected electron not originating from a
Z-o r W -boson decay passing the event selection (1NPel, for
1 non-prompt electron) is also predicted by the simulation to
be very small but one order of magnitude higher, reaching
about 0.3% of the total event yield after selection. An uncer-
tainty in this yield is derived by comparing the number of data
and MC events in an alternative region deﬁned by requiring
two same-sign (SS) leptons instead of opposite-sign (OS).
The SS region is predicted by the simulation to have a com-
position that is 12% 1NPel events, with the remaining 88% of
the sample coming from non-1NPel events, which is dom-
inated by diboson production. This is estimated from sim-
ulation and subtracted from the data. The remaining data
events are then compared with MC predictions in bins of
electron p
T. The data-to-simulation ratio ranges from val-
ues close to 3 for pT < 120 GeV to values close to 1 for
pT ≥ 300 GeV. These values are used as simulation-to-data
scale factors to correct the yield of simulated 1NPel events in
the OS region in order to estimate an uncertainty in the fake-
lepton modelling. The b-jet tagging efﬁciency measurement
is then repeated with these scale factors applied and com-
123

===== PAGE 16 =====
970 Page 16 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
30 40 210 210×2
 [GeV]
T
Jet p
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
b-jet tagging efficiency
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 = 70% single-cut OPbεMV2,
Data (stat. unc.)
Data (total unc.)
 MCtt
(a)
30 40 210 210×2
 [GeV]
T
Jet p
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
1.1
1.15b-jet tagging efficiency SF
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 = 70% single-cut OPbεMV2,
Scale factor (stat. unc.)
Scale factor (total unc.)
(b)
Fig. 8 The (a) b-jet tagging efﬁciency and (b) b-jet tagging efﬁciency
simulation-to-data scale factors for the εb = 70% single-cut OP of
the MV2 tagger as a function of jet pT. The efﬁciency measurement
is shown together with the efﬁciency derived from t ¯t simulated events
passing the signal region selection. Vertical error bars include data sta-
tistical uncertainties only while the green bands correspond to the sum
in quadrature of statistical and systematic uncertainties. The dots are
located at the mean of the b-jet p
T distribution in each pT bin
pared with the nominal measurement. Differences of about
1% to 2% for jet pT < 40 GeV and negligible elsewhere
are observed and accounted for as an additional systematic
uncertainty.
9 Results
The goodness-of-ﬁt is evaluated by computing a Pearson’s
χ2 and comparing it with the number of degrees of free-
dom (nd f ) of the ﬁt [ 63]. This procedure tests the hypoth-
esis that the remaining differences between observed and
expected yields post-ﬁt originate only from the limited size
of the dataset. The χ
2/nd f value obtained for the nominal
measurement is 0.98, corresponding to a p-value of about
0.65. This result illustrates the high goodness-of-ﬁt already
observed before accounting for the other sources of uncer-
tainty discussed in Sect. 8.
The bb, bl, lb and ll yield post-ﬁt correction factors are
of order unity, compatible with unity within uncertainties,
and typically constrained within 2–5% for bb, 5–10% for
bl, and 7–20% for lb and ll. The central values of the bb
yield correction factors tend to be a few percent below unity,
pointing to a slight underestimate of the number of light-
ﬂavour jets in the nominal simulation. The yield correction
factors deviate more strongly from unity when running on
the alternative simulated samples.
The b-jet tagging efﬁciency measurement for the ε
b =
70% single-cut OP of the MV2 algorithm is presented in
Fig. 8a as a function of jet pT together with the efﬁ-
ciency derived from t ¯t simulated events passing the sig-
nal region selection. The corresponding b-jet tagging efﬁ-
ciency simulation-to-data scale factors, deﬁned as the ratio
between the measured b-jet tagging efﬁciency to the b-jet
tagging efﬁciency derived from the simulation, are shown
in Fig. 8b. Scale factors are derived for all single-cut OPs
and for the DL1 tagger using the same technique, resulting
in similar results, as illustrated in Fig. 9. The scale factors
have values very close to one and are approximately con-
stant throughout the entire pT range, illustrating the good
modelling of the b-jet tagging performance. The b-jet tag-
ging efﬁciency measurement for the εb = 70% single-cut
OP of the MV2 algorithm as a function of jet|η| and the cor-
responding simulation-to-data scale factors are presented in
Fig. 10.T h eb-jet tagging probability and efﬁciency measure-
ment was also repeated considering only data and simulated
events with either less or more than 28 additionalpp interac-
tions per bunch crossing, and separately for 2015–2016 and
2017 data. In all cases, consistent results were observed.
The uncertainty in the efﬁciency measurement for the
ε
b = 70% single-cut OP of the MV2 tagger is sum-
marised in Table 5. The total uncertainty reaches about 1%
for 40 GeV ≤ pT < 250 GeV, where it is dominated by the
uncertainty in the physics modelling of t ¯t events and the
data statistical uncertainty. At lower pT values (20 GeV ≤
pT < 40 GeV), the total uncertainty increases to 8% due to
higher uncertainties in the jet energy scale, the modelling of
t ¯t and single-top-quark events, the limited number of data
and MC events and the modelling of fake leptons. For jet
p
T ≥ 250 GeV, the uncertainty increases to about 3% due
to the limited number of data events. These observations are
consistent across single-cut OPs and taggers.
The measurement of the b-jet tagging probabilities in the
MV2 and DL1 algorithm output bins is presented in Fig.11a,
c together with the b-jet tagging probabilities derived from
t ¯t simulated events passing the signal region selection. The
123

===== PAGE 17 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 17 of 36 970
30 40 210 210×2
 [GeV]
T
Jet p
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
1.1
1.15b-jet tagging efficiency SF
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
MV2,  various single-cut OP
 = 85% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 77% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 70% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 60% scale factor (total unc.)bε
(a)
30 40 210 210×2
 [GeV]
T
Jet p
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
1.1
1.15b-jet tagging efficiency SF
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
DL1,  various single-cut OP
 = 85% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 77% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 70% scale factor (total unc.)bε
 = 60% scale factor (total unc.)bε
(b)
Fig. 9 b-jet tagging efﬁciency simulation-to-data scale factors as a
function of jet pT. The 60%, 70%, 77% and 85% single-cut OP of the
(a) MV2 and (b) DL1 taggers are shown. The various groups of points
are offset for visual effects but computed in the same jet pT range.
Vertical error bars represent the total uncertainty
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
|ηJet |
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
b-jet tagging efficiency
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 = 70% single-cut OPbεMV2,
Data (stat. unc.)
Data (total unc.)
 MCtt
(a)
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
|ηJet |
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
1.1
1.15
b-jet tagging efficiency SF
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 = 70% single-cut OPbεMV2,
Scale factor (stat. unc.)
Scale factor (total unc.)
(b)
Fig. 10 The (a) b-jet tagging efﬁciency and(b) b-jet tagging efﬁciency
simulation-to-data scale factor forεb = 70% single-cut OP of theMV2
tagger as a function of jet |η|. Vertical error bars include data statis-
tical uncertainties only while the green bands correspond to the sum
in quadrature of statistical and systematic uncertainties. The dots are
located at the mean of the b-jet |η| distribution in each |η| bin
probabilities are shown for jets with 110 GeV ≤ pT <
140 GeV, which is located close to theb-jet tagging efﬁciency
maximum. The correspondingb-jet tagging probability scale
factors are shown in Fig.11b, d. Scale factors are derived for
all single-cut OPs using the same technique, resulting in sim-
ilar results. The scale factors have values close to one and are
about constant throughout the pseudo-continuous bins.
The uncertainty in this measurement is summarised in
Table 6. The total uncertainty varies from about 9% in the
100–85% bin to about 1% in the 60–0% bin. It is driven by
the t ¯t modelling uncertainties and data statistics, which is
consistent with the result reported for the 70% single-cut OP
in this p
T range.
10 Usage in ATLAS analysis
This section details how the simulation-to-data scale factors
are incorporated into ATLAS physics analyses. Scale factors
are smoothed, extrapolated beyond the jet pT range of the
data measurement and corrected taking into account the gen-
erator dependence in the simulation. The number of system-
atic uncertainties is reduced while preserving the bin-by-bin
correlations. The scale factors are then applied to ATLAS
physics analyses by correcting the b-jet tagging response in
simulation and by applying related uncertainties to the cor-
rection.
123

===== PAGE 18 =====
970 Page 18 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
Table 5 Breakdown of the systematic uncertainties in theb-jet tagging
efﬁciency measurement for the 70% single-cut OP of the MV2 tagger
as a function of the jet pT bin. The ‘t ¯t modelling’ and the ‘Single top
modelling’ uncertainties correspond to the sum in quadrature of the
uncertainty in the parton shower, hadronisation model, initial-state and
ﬁnal-state radiation and PDF for t ¯t and single top-quark production,
respectively. The ‘Single top modelling’ uncertainties include an addi-
tional source originating from the interference between single top and
t ¯t production. ‘Other sources’ corresponds to the sum in quadrature of
the uncertainties related to jet energy resolution, electron and muon per-
formance, b-tagging performance for light-ﬂavour jets and c-jets, JVT
performance, diboson and Z+jet modelling (including normalisation
and shape uncertainties) and pile-up modelling. All systematic uncer-
tainties are fully correlated bin-by-bin whereas the statistical uncertainty
correlations are evaluated following the procedures described in Sect.8.
In the case of correlated systematic uncertainties, the relative sign of
the uncertainty in each bin is taken into account, even if not shown here
Source of uncertainty Relative uncertainty on εb [%] per jet pT bin [GeV]
20–30 30–40 40–60 60–85 85–110 110–140 140–175 175–250 250–600
Data statistics 3.7 1.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.8 1.1 2.8
MC statistics 2.2 1.0 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.5
Jet energy scale 4.5 0.8 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4
t ¯t modelling 3.2 1.5 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.8 1.0 0.8 0.5
Single top modelling 2.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.1
Fake leptons modelling 1.8 1.1 0.1 0.2 < 0.1 < 0.10 . 2 < 0.10 . 2
Other sources 1.4 0.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3
Total 7.7 3.0 1.4 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.5 3.1
100-85% 85-77% 77-70% 70-60% 60-0%
 OPMV2D
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
b-jet tagging probability
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 < 140 GeV
T
 jet p≤MV2,  110 
Data (stat. unc.)
Data (total unc.)
 MCtt
(a)
100-85% 85-77% 77-70% 70-60% 60-0%
 OPMV2D
0.8
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
b-jet tagging probability SF
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 < 140 GeV
T
 jet p≤MV2,  110 
Scale factor (stat. unc.)
Scale factor (total unc.)
(b)
100-85% 85-77% 77-70% 70-60% 60-0%
 OPDL1D
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
b-jet tagging probability
ATLAS  -1 = 13 TeV, 80.5 fbs
 < 140 GeV
T
 jet p≤DL1,  110 
Data (stat. unc.)
Data (total unc.)
 MCtt
(c) ( d)
Fig. 11 The (a, c) b-jet tagging probability and (b, d) b-jet tagging
probability simulation-to-data scale factors for the (a, b) MV2 and
(c, d) DL1 tagger for jets with 110 ≤ pT < 140 GeV in the var-
ious pseudo-continuous bins. The probability measurement is shown
together with the probabilities derived from t ¯t simulated events pass-
ing the signal region selection. Vertical error bars include data statis-
tical uncertainties only while the green bands correspond to the sum
in quadrature of statistical and systematic uncertainties. The dots are
located at the bin centres
123

===== PAGE 19 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 19 of 36 970
Table 6 Breakdown of the systematic uncertainties in the b-jet tag-
ging probability measurement of the MV2 tagger as a function of the
‘pseudo-continuous’ bins for jets satisfying 110≤ pT < 140 GeV. The
‘t ¯t modelling’ and the ‘Single top modelling’ uncertainties correspond
to the sum in quadrature of the uncertainty in the parton shower, hadro-
nisation model, initial-state and ﬁnal-state radiation and PDF fort ¯t and
single-top-quark production, respectively. The ‘Single top modelling’
uncertainties include an additional source originating from the interfer-
ence between single top andt ¯t production. ‘Other sources’ corresponds
to the sum in quadrature of the uncertainties related to jet energy res-
olution, electron and muon performance, b-tagging performance for
light-ﬂavour jets andc-jets, JVT performance, diboson andZ+jet mod-
elling (including normalisation and shape uncertainties) and pile-up
modelling. All systematic uncertainties are fully correlated bin-by-bin
whereas the statistical uncertainty correlations are evaluated following
the procedures described in Sect.8. In the case of correlated systematic
uncertainties, the relative sign of the uncertainty in each bin is taken
into account, even if not shown here
Source of uncertainty Impact on Pb [%] per
pseudo-continuous OP
100–85 85–77 77–70 70–60 60–0
Data statistics 4.2 3.0 3.2 2.6 0.7
MC statistics 1.4 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.2
Jet energy scale 1.0 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1
t ¯t modelling 7.2 0.9 0.8 0.9 0.9
Single top modelling 2.4 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.3
Fake leptons modelling 0.1 0.1 < 0.1 < 0.1 < 0.1
Other sources combined 2.1 0.5 0.5 2.2 0.1
Total 9.1 3.3 3.3 3.2 1.2
10.1 Smoothing
The simulation-to-data scale factors for single cut OPs are
smoothed in jet pT using a local polynomial kernel estimator
with a bandwith parameter of 0.2 following the procedure
described in Ref. [6]. This procedure prevents distortions in
the variables of interest induced by the application of the
scale factors.
10.2 Extrapolation to high- p
T jets
The analysis described in this paper provides a precise mea-
surement of theb-jet tagging efﬁciency in data and compares
it with the one obtained from MC simulation. Since there are
currently not many b-jets in data for jet pT above 400 GeV
in di-lepton t ¯t events, an alternative assessment of the uncer-
tainty in the b-jet tagging efﬁciency for jet pT in this range
is developed to extend the single cut OP calibration to the
entire jet pT range inspected by physics analyses in ATLAS.
Underlying quantities that are known to affect the b-tagging
performance are varied in the simulation one by one and
the b-jet tagging efﬁciency is recomputed in each case. The
difference from the b-jet tagging efﬁciency obtained in the
nominal simulation is then taken as an additional systematic
uncertainty.
Four distinct sets of variables, related to the reconstruc-
tion of tracks, of jets, the modelling of theb-hadrons and the
interaction of long-lived b-hadrons with the detector mate-
rial, are considered. Among the uncertainties related to the
reconstruction of tracks, the ones that are found to most
affect theb-tagging performance are those related to the track
impact-parameter resolution, the fraction of fake tracks, the
description of the detector material, and the track multiplicity
per jet. The uncertainty in the impact-parameter resolution
includes the effects of alignment, dead modules and addi-
tional material not accurately modelled in the simulation.
The uncertainty is derived from several event topologies,
including dijet events where effects due to tracking in dense
environments, such as in the cores of high-energy jets, are
included [12]. No dedicated studies of samples enriched in
high-energy b-jets, where collimated tracks from displaced
decay vertices conspire to create a challenging environment
for the track reconstruction algorithm, are included at this
stage. The effect of the parton shower simulation andb-quark
fragmentation function is evaluated by comparing the b-jet
tagging efﬁciency with the one obtained from the alterna-
tive t ¯t event simulations described in Sect. 5. In standard
ATLAS MC simulations, interactions with detector material
are simulated only for the decay products of the b-hadron
and not for the b-hadron itself. Given that about 5% of the
b-hadrons within b-jets with jet p
T = 150 GeV decay after
the innermost pixel detector layer, differences in the b-jet
tagging efﬁciency at high pT are expected. In order to eval-
uate the size of the effect, the Z′ sample described in Sect. 5
was enhanced to include the interaction of b-hadrons with
the detector material, and theb-jet tagging efﬁciency derived
from this sample is compared with the one obtained from the
nominal Z′ sample.
These sources of uncertainties are found to have a similar
impact on the b-jet tagging efﬁciency of the MV2 and DL1
taggers in the jet pT range 400 GeV to 1 TeV. In this jet pT
regime, the modelling uncertainties are dominant, reaching
2% for pT ∼ 400 GeV and growing linearly to ∼ 4% at
the TeV scale. The uncertainty due to the interaction with the
detector material is also important and found to be ∼ 1% at
pT ∼ 700 GeV, growing to∼ 2% at ∼ 1 TeV. Other leading
uncertainties include the jet energy scale and track impact-
parameter resolution uncertainties, reaching about 2.5% and
1% at ∼ 1 TeV, respectively. At the TeV scale, the impact of
the extrapolation uncertainty is different for MV2 and DL1,
due to the differing efﬁciency proﬁle of the two b-taggers.
The b-jet tagging efﬁciency ofDL1 falls more steeply at high
p
T compared to that of MV2, which is approximately con-
stant. This results in the jet energy scale uncertainty having a
much larger impact for the DL1 tagger, due to the increased
impact of the migration of jets between the pT bins.
123

===== PAGE 20 =====
970 Page 20 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
(a) (b)
Fig. 12 b-jet tagging efﬁciency simulation-to-data scale factors for theεb = 70% single cut OP of the(a) MV2 and (b) DL1 taggers, including the
smoothed and extrapolated results. The bin centres are used for the smoothing whereas the dots are located at the mean of theb-jet pT distribution
in each pT bin
The simulation-to-data scale factor measured in the high-
est pT bin considered in the collision data analysis is extrap-
olated for pT ≥ 400 GeV. The mean value and uncertain-
ties after smoothing at pT = 400 GeV are assumed to stay
valid for higher jet pT. An extrapolation uncertainty is then
constructed as the sum in quadrature of all the uncertainties
described above, rescaled in proportion to their respective
values in the highest pT bin of the data measurement, and
added in quadrature to the pre-existing uncertainties. The
result of the procedures of smoothing and extrapolating the
single cut OP scale factors are shown in Fig. 12, where both
the b-jet tagging efﬁciency as directly measured in data and
its extrapolation are shown for the εb = 70% single cut OP
of the MV2 and DL1 taggers.
10.3 Generator dependence
The b-jet tagging efﬁciency in the simulation depends on
several properties, such as the production fractions of the
different b-hadron species, the fragmentation function and
the number of additional charged particles near theb-hadron,
which are not necessarily identical among the different MC
event generators. Simulation-to-simulation scale factors are
therefore derived to take into account differences in theb-jet
tagging efﬁciency due to the usage of a different fragmenta-
tion model to that used to derive the simulation-to-data scale
factors. The simulation-to-simulation scale factors are com-
puted as ratios ofb-jet tagging efﬁciencies in the same jetp
T
bins of the alternative and nominal t ¯t samples. For b-jets,
they range from 1 to 3% as a function of jet pT. These scale
factors are used when theb-jet tagging efﬁciency simulation-
to-data scale factors are applied to a sample produced with
a showering generator different from the one used for the
nominal t ¯t sample used in the denominator of the scale fac-
tor calculation.
10.4 Reduction of systematic uncertainties
The individual application in a physics analysis of each inde-
pendent systematic uncertainty included in Fig. 12 would
lead to a large number of variations. A method for reducing
the total number of uncertainties while preserving the bin-
by-bin correlations is provided for use in ATLAS physics
analyses and is described in Ref. [ 6]. This is achieved by
constructing the covariance matrix for each source of uncer-
tainty and by summing these matrices together. Bin-by-bin
correlations are kept as non-zero off-diagonal elements. As
this equates to the total covariance matrix, which is sym-
metric and positive-deﬁnite, an eigenvector decomposition
is performed. The resulting number of variations equals the
number of jet p
T bins and is further reduced where eigen-
value variations are shown to have a negligible impact on a
result.
10.5 Application to physics analyses
For each jet whereb-jet tagging is applied in ATLAS physics
analyses, a weight is applied in simulation to match the tag-
ging rate as measured in data by the calibration analyses.
The weight is jet-ﬂavour dependent. The calibration analy-
sis described in this paper is the baseline correction for jets
labelled as b-jets. If the jet is tagged using a single cut OP in
MC simulation the weight is simply the smoothed simulation-
to-data scale factor itself:
w
jet = SF ( pT), (2)
where SF ( pT) is the smoothed b-jet tagging efﬁciency
scale factor evaluated at a given pT. If the jet is not tagged
the weight becomes:
wjet = 1 − ϵdata
b ( pT)
1 − ϵMC
b ( pT) = 1 − SF ( pT)ϵMC
b ( pT)
1 − ϵMC
b ( pT) . (3)
123

===== PAGE 21 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 21 of 36 970
The latter form of Eq. (3) is adopted because, in this way,
and by constructing high-granularity efﬁciency distributions,
possible differences in the tagging rate induced by event
topologies are minimised. These weights are necessary to
ensure that the number of events remains the same after cor-
rections. The ﬁnal event weight is then computed as the prod-
uct of all jet weights. In cases where the physics analysis does
not rely on the single cut OP but on the pseudo-continuous
bins of the discriminant distribution, Eq. (2) becomes depen-
dent on the p
T and pseudo-continuous bins T m, Ok , and
SF (T m, Ok) becomes the b-jet tagging probability SF mea-
sured in the pseudo-continuous bin Ok and pT bin T m while
Eq. (3) becomes unnecessary.
11 Conclusion
Several b-tagging algorithms are used to analyse data
recorded by the ATLAS experiment during Run 2 of the
LHC. Their performance is evaluated in simulation, and the
b-jet tagging efﬁciencies of the MV2 and DL1 algorithms
are measured in pp collision data.
The b-jet identiﬁcation strategy combines the results of
low-level algorithms ( IP2D, IP3D, SV1, JetFitter)i n t o
high-level algorithms based on multivariate classiﬁers (MV2,
DL1). The low-level algorithms either exploit the large
impact parameters of the tracks originating from theb-hadron
decay products or attempt to directly reconstruct heavy-
ﬂavour hadron vertices. Large increases in light-ﬂavour jet
and c-jet rejection are obtained by the MV2 and DL1 algo-
rithms compared to each individual low-level algorithm,
illustrating the high complementarity of the latter and val-
idating the overall strategy followed by the ATLAS Collab-
oration.
The b-jet tagging efﬁciency of the MV2 and DL1 algo-
rithms are measured in 80 .5f b
−1 of proton–proton colli-
sion data collected by the ATLAS detector over the period
2015–2017 at a centre-of-mass energy √ s = 13 TeV. A
high-purity sample of dileptonic t ¯t events is obtained by
retaining events with exactly one muon, one electron and two
hadronic jets. Events are classiﬁed according to the transverse
momentum of each of the two jets as well as the jet–lepton
invariant masses obtained when pairing exclusively each jet
with the lepton most likely to originate from the same top-
quark decay. A combinatorial likelihood approach is then
used to simultaneously extract the jet ﬂavour composition
of the sample and the b-jet tagging probabilities for jets in a
transverse momentum range from 20 to 600 GeV, from which
the b-jet tagging efﬁciencies for single cut OPs are obtained.
Simulation-to-data scale factors are computed by comparing
the efﬁciency measured in collision data with that observed
in the simulation. The measured simulation-to-data scale fac-
tors are close to unity with a total uncertainty ranging from 1
to 8% for single cut OPs. The precision of the measurement
is limited at low p
T by the uncertainty in the jet energy scale,
which is detector-related, and at high pT by the size of the
dataset, which will grow in the future. It was previously lim-
ited by the modelling of top-quark pair production. Further
procedures relating to the simulation-to-data scale factors are
undertaken to correct for generator dependences, smooth the
shape, extrapolate beyond the range of the data measurement,
reduce the number of nuisance parameters and apply them
in ATLAS analyses.
This result demonstrates a signiﬁcant improvement in the
precision of the b-jet tagging efﬁciency measurement for the
ATLAS experiment, which is typically limited by systematic
uncertainties. The total uncertainty is reduced by up to a
factor of two relative to the previous ATLAS results. This is
achieved by the improvement in the measurement method,
which simultaneously extracts the b-jet tagging efﬁciency
and jet ﬂavour composition.
Acknowledgements We thank CERN for the very successful oper-
ation of the LHC, as well as the support staff from our institutions
without whom ATLAS could not be operated efﬁciently. We acknowl-
edge the support of ANPCyT, Argentina; YerPhI, Armenia; ARC,
Australia; BMWFW and FWF, Austria; ANAS, Azerbaijan; SSTC,
Belarus; CNPq and FAPESP, Brazil; NSERC, NRC and CFI, Canada;
CERN; CONICYT, Chile; CAS, MOST and NSFC, China; COLCIEN-
CIAS, Colombia; MSMT CR, MPO CR and VSC CR, Czech Repub-
lic; DNRF and DNSRC, Denmark; IN2P3-CNRS, CEA-DRF/IRFU,
France; SRNSFG, Georgia; BMBF, HGF, and MPG, Germany; GSRT,
Greece; RGC, Hong Kong SAR, China; ISF and Benoziyo Center,
Israel; INFN, Italy; MEXT and JSPS, Japan; CNRST, Morocco; NWO,
The Netherlands; RCN, Norway; MNiSW and NCN, Poland; FCT, Por-
tugal; MNE/IFA, Romania; MES of Russia and NRC KI, Russian Fed-
eration; JINR; MESTD, Serbia; MSSR, Slovakia; ARRS and MIZŠ,
Slovenia; DST/NRF, South Africa; MINECO, Spain; SRC and Wal-
lenberg Foundation, Sweden; SERI, SNSF and Cantons of Bern and
Geneva, Switzerland; MOST, Taiwan; TAEK, Turkey; STFC, United
Kingdom; DOE and NSF, USA. In addition, individual groups and mem-
bers have received support from BCKDF, CANARIE, CRC and Com-
pute Canada, Canada; COST, ERC, ERDF, Horizon 2020, and Marie
Skłodowska-Curie Actions, European Union; Investissements d’ Avenir
Labex and Idex, ANR, France; DFG and AvH Foundation, Germany;
Herakleitos, Thales and Aristeia programmes co-ﬁnanced by EU-ESF
and the Greek NSRF, Greece; BSF-NSF and GIF, Israel; CERCA Pro-
gramme Generalitat de Catalunya, Spain; The Royal Society and Lev-
erhulme Trust, UK. The crucial computing support from all WLCG
partners is acknowledged gratefully, in particular from CERN, the
ATLAS Tier-1 facilities at TRIUMF (Canada), NDGF (Denmark, Nor-
way, Sweden), CC-IN2P3 (France), KIT/GridKA (Germany), INFN-
CNAF (Italy), NL-T1 (The Netherlands), PIC (Spain), ASGC (Tai-
wan), RAL (UK) and BNL (USA), the Tier-2 facilities worldwide and
large non-WLCG resource providers. Major contributors of computing
resources are listed in Ref. [64].
Data A vailability Statement This manuscript has no associated data
or the data will not be deposited. [Authors’ comment: All ATLAS sci-
entiﬁc output is published in journals, and preliminary results are made
available in Conference Notes. All are openly available, without restric-
tion on use by external parties beyond copyright law and the standard
conditions agreed by CERN. Data associated with journal publications
are also made available: tables and data from plots (e.g. cross section
123

===== PAGE 22 =====
970 Page 22 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
values, likelihood proﬁles, selection efﬁciencies, cross section limits,
...) are stored in appropriate repositories such as HEPDATA ( http://
hepdata.cedar.ac.uk/). ATLAS also strives to make additional material
related to the paper available that allows a reinterpretation of the data
in the context of new theoretical models. For example, an extended
encapsulation of the analysis is often provided for measurements in the
framework of RIVET ( http://rivet.hepforge.org/). This information is
taken from the ATLAS Data Access Policy, which is a public docu-
ment that can be downloaded from http://opendata.cern.ch/record/413
[opendata.cern.ch].
Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License ( http://creativecomm
ons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution,
and reproduction in any medium, provided you give appropriate credit
to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons license, and indicate if changes were made.
Funded by SCOAP
3.
References
1. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Experiment at the CERN Large
Hadron Collider, JINST 3, S08003 (2008)
2. L. Evans, P. Bryant, LHC Machine, JINST 3, S08001 (2008)
3. ATLAS Collaboration, Observation of H → b¯b decays and VH
production with the ATLAS detector, Phys. Lett. B786, 59 (2018).
arXiv: 1808.08238 [hep-ex]
4. ATLAS Collaboration, Observation of Higgs boson production in
association with a top quark pair at the LHC with the ATLAS
detector, Phys. Lett. B 784, 173 (2018). arXiv: 1806.00425 [hep-
ex]
5. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of b-jet identiﬁcation in the
ATLAS experiment, JINST11, P04008 (2016).arXiv: 1512.01094
[hep-ex]
6. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurements of b-jet tagging efﬁciency
with the ATLAS detector using t ¯t events at √
s = 13 TeV, JHEP
08, 089 (2018). arXiv: 1805.01845 [hep-ex]
7. ATLAS Collaboration, Calibration of the ATLAS b-tagging algo-
rithm in t ¯t semileptonic events. ATLAS-CONF-2018-045, 2018.
https://cds.cern.ch/record/2638455
8. ATLAS Collaboration, Calibration of light-ﬂavour b-jet mistag-
ging rates using ATLAS proton–proton collision data at √ s =
13 TeV, ATLAS-CONF-2018-006, 2018. https://cds.cern.ch/
record/2314418
9. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Insertable B-Layer Technical
Design Report, ATLAS-TDR-19, 2010, URL: https://cds.cern.
ch/record/1291633, Addendum: ATLAS-TDR-19-ADD-1, 2012.
https://cds.cern.ch/record/1451888
10. B. Abbott et al., Production and integration of the ATLAS
Insertable B-Layer. JINST 13, T05008 (2018). arXiv:1803.00844
[physics.ins-det]
11. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS trigger system
in 2015, Eur. Phys. J. C77, 317 (2017).arXiv:1611.09661 [hep-ex]
12. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS track recon-
struction algorithms in dense environments in LHC Run 2, Eur.
Phys. J. C 77, 673 (2017). arXiv:1704.07983 [hep-ex]
13. ATLAS Collaboration, Early Inner Detector Tracking Performance
in the 2015 Data at √
s = 13 TeV, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-051,
2015. https://cds.cern.ch/record/2110140
14. ATLAS Collaboration, Reconstruction of primary vertices at the
ATLAS experiment in Run 1 proton-proton collisions at the LHC,
Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 332 (2017). arXiv:1611.10235 [hep-ex]
15. ATLAS Collaboration, Vertex Reconstruction Performance of the
ATLAS Detector at √
s = 13 TeV, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2015-026,
2015. https://cds.cern.ch/record/2037717
16. P. Billoir, S. Qian, Fast vertex ﬁtting with a local parametrization
of tracks. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., A 311, 139 (1992)
17. ATLAS Collaboration, Topological cell clustering in the ATLAS
calorimeters and its performance in LHC Run 1, Eur. Phys. J. C
77, 490 (2017). arXiv: 1603.02934 [hep-ex]
18. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The anti-kt jet clustering algo-
rithm. JHEP 04, 063 (2008). arXiv:0802.1189 [hep-ph]
19. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy scale measurements and their
systematic uncertainties in proton–proton collisions at √
s =
13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Phys. Rev. D96, 072002 (2017).
arXiv:1703.09665 [hep-ex]
20. ATLAS Collaboration, Selection of jets produced in 13 TeV
proton–proton collisions with the ATLAS detector. ATLAS-
CONF-2015-029 (2015). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2037702
21. ATLAS Collaboration, Tagging and suppression of pileup jets with
the ATLAS detector. ATLAS-CONF-2014-018 (2014).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1700870
22. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The catchment area of jets.
JHEP 04, 005 (2008). arXiv:0802.1188 [hep-ph]
23. ATLAS Collaboration, Optimisation and performance studies of
the ATLAS b-tagging algorithms for the 2017-18 LHC run. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2017-013 (2017).https://cds.cern.ch/record/2273281
24. ATLAS Collaboration, Secondary vertex ﬁnding for jet ﬂavour
identiﬁcation with the ATLAS detector, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2017-
011 (2017). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2270366
25. ATLAS Collaboration, Topological b-hadron decay reconstruction
and identiﬁcation of b-jets with the JetFitter package in the ATLAS
experiment at the LHC, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2018-025, 2018, URL:
https://cds.cern.ch/record/2645405
26. R. Frühwirth, Application of Kalman ﬁltering to track and vertex
ﬁtting. Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 262, 444 (1987)
27. A. Höcker et al., TMV A—toolkit for multivariate data analysis
(2007). arXiv:physics/0703039 [physics.data-an]
28. F. Chollet et al., Keras. https://keras.io (2015)
29. Theano Development Team, Theano: a Python framework
for fast computation of mathematical expressions (2016).
arXiv:1605.02688 [cs.SC]
30. D.P. Kingma, J. Ba, Adam: A method for stochastic optimization
(2014). arXiv: 1412.6980 [cs.SC]
31. I.J. Goodfellow, D. Warde-Farley, M. Mirza, A. Courville, Y . Ben-
gio, Maxout networks (2013). arXiv:1302.4389 [stat.ML]
32. S. Ioffe, C. Szegedy, Batch normalization: accelerating deep
network training by reducing internal covariate shift (2015).
arXiv:1502.03167 [cs.LG]
33. ATLAS Collaboration, Luminosity determination in pp collisions
at √
s = 13 TeV using the ATLAS detector at the LHC. ATLAS-
CONF-2019-021 (2019). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2677054
34. G. Avoni et al., The new LUCID-2 detector for luminosity mea-
surement and monitoring in ATLAS. JINST 13, P07017 (2018)
35. P. Nason, A New method for combining NLO QCD with
shower Monte Carlo algorithms. JHEP 11, 040 (2004).
arXiv:hep-ph/0409146
36. S. Frixione, P. Nason, C. Oleari, Matching NLO QCD computations
with parton shower simulations: the POWHEG method. JHEP 11,
070 (2007). arXiv:0709.2092 [hep-ph]
37. S. Frixione, P. Nason, G. Ridolﬁ, A Positive-weight next-to-
leading-order Monte Carlo for heavy ﬂavour hadroproduction.
JHEP 09, 126 (2007). arXiv:0707.3088 [hep-ph]
38. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, A general framework for
implementing NLO calculations in shower Monte Carlo programs:
the POWHEG BOX. JHEP06, 043 (2010).arXiv:1002.2581 [hep-
ph]
123

===== PAGE 23 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 23 of 36 970
39. T. Sjöstrand, S. Mrenna, P. Z. Skands, A brief introduction to
PYTHIA 8.1, Comput. Phys. Commun. 178 , 852 (2008). arXiv:
0710.3820 [hep-ph]
40. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Pythia 8 tunes to 7 TeV data. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2014-021 (2014).https://cds.cern.ch/record/1966419
41. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions for the LHC Run II. JHEP 04,
040 (2015). arXiv:1410.8849 [hep-ph]
42. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions with LHC data. Nucl. Phys. B
867, 244 (2013). arXiv:1207.1303 [hep-ph]
43. ATLAS Collaboration, Studies on top-quark Monte Carlo mod-
elling for Top2016. ATL-PHYS-PUB- 2016-020, (2016). https://
cds.cern.ch/record/2216168
44. J. Bellm et al., Herwig 7.0/Herwig++ 3.0 release note. Eur. Phys.
J. C 76, 196 (2016)
45. S. Frixione, E. Laenen, P. Motylinski, B.R. Webber, C.D. White,
Single-top hadroproduction in association with a W boson. JHEP
07, 029 (2008). arXiv:0805.3067 [hep-ph]
46. E. Re, Single-top Wt-channel production matched with parton
showers using the POWHEG method. Eur. Phys. J. C 71, 1547
(2011). arXiv:1009.2450 [hep-ph]
47. T. Gleisberg et al., Event generation with SHERPA 1.1. JHEP 02,
007 (2009). arXiv:0811.4622 [hep-ph]
48. S. Höche, F. Krauss, S. Schumann, F. Siegert, QCD matrix elements
and truncated showers. JHEP 05, 053 (2009). arXiv:0903.1219
[hep-ph]
49. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, NLO single-top production
matched with shower in POWHEG: s- and t-channel contribu-
tions. JHEP 09, 111 (2009). [Erratum: JHEP02,011(2010)],arXiv:
0907.4076 [hep-ph]
50. D.J. Lange, The EvtGen particle decay simulation package. Nucl.
Instrum. Meth. A 462, 152 (2001)
51. ATLAS Collaboration, The Pythia 8 A3 tune description of
ATLAS minimum bias and inelastic measurements incorporat-
ing the Donnachie-Landshoff diffractive model. ATL-PHYS-PUB-
2016- 017 (2016). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2206965
52. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Simulation Infrastructure. Eur.
Phys. J. C 70, 823 (2010). arXiv: 1005.4568 [physics.ins-det]
53. S. Agostinelli et al., GEANT4—a simulation toolkit. Nucl. Instrum.
Meth. A 506, 250 (2003)
54. ATLAS Collaboration, The simulation principle and performance
of the ATLAS fast calorimeter simulation FastCaloSim. ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2010-013 (2010).https://cds.cern.ch/record/1300517
55. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron and photon performance measure-
ments with the ATLAS detector using the 2015–2017 LHC proton–
proton collision data (2019). arXiv: 1908.00005 [hep-ex]
56. ATLAS Collaboration, Muon reconstruction performance of the
ATLAS detector in proton–proton collision data at √
s = 13 TeV,
Eur. Phys. J. C 76, 292 (2016). arXiv:1603.05598 [hep-ex]
57. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurements of differential cross sections
of top quark pair production in association with jets in pp colli-
sions at √ s = 13 TeV using the ATLAS detector. JHEP 10, 159
(2018). arXiv:1802.06572 [hep-ex]
58. F. James, M. Winkler, MINUIT user’s guide (2004). http://seal.
web.cern.ch/seal/documents/minuit/mnusersguide.pdf
59. G. Bohm, G. Zech, Introduction to statistics and data analysis for
physicists; 3rd revised, Verlag Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron
(2017) 488, ISBN: 978-3-945931-13-4.http://bib-pubdb1.desy.de/
record/389738
60. J. Butterworth et al., PDF4LHC recommendations for LHC Run
II. J. Phys. G 43, 023001 (2016). arXiv:1510.03865 [hep-ph]
61. ATLAS Collaboration, Multi-Boson Simulation for 13 TeV
ATLAS analyses. ATL-PHYS-PUB-2017-005 (2017).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/2261933
62. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS simulation of boson plus jets pro-
cesses in Run 2. ATL-PHYS-PUB- 2017-006 (2017). https://cds.
cern.ch/record/2261937
63. K. Pearson, On the criterion that a given system of deviations from
the probable in the case of a correlated system of variables is such
that it can be reasonably supposed to have arisen from random
sampling. Lond. Edinburgh Dublin Philos. Mag. J. Sci. 50, 157
(1900)
64. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS computing acknowledgements.
ATL-GEN-PUB-2016-002. https://cds.cern.ch/record/2202407
ATLAS Collaboration
G. Aad101, B. Abbott 128, D. C. Abbott 102, A. Abed Abud 70a,70b, K. Abeling 53, D. K. Abhayasinghe 93, S. H. Abidi 167,
O. S. AbouZeid40, N. L. Abraham 156, H. Abramowicz 161, H. Abreu 160, Y . Abulaiti6, B. S. Acharya 66a,66b,o, B. Achkar 53,
S. Adachi163, L. Adam 99, C. Adam Bourdarios 5, L. Adamczyk 83a, L. Adamek 167, J. Adelman 121, M. Adersberger 114,
A. Adiguzel12c,aj, S. Adorni 54, T. Adye 144, A. A. Affolder 146,Y . A ﬁ k 160, C. Agapopoulou 132,M . N . A g a r a s38,
A. Aggarwal119, C. Agheorghiesei 27c, J. A. Aguilar-Saavedra 140a,140f,ai, F. Ahmadov 79, W .S .A h m e d103,X . A i 18,
G. Aielli73a,73b, S. Akatsuka 85, T .P .A .Å k e s s o n96, E. Akilli 54,A . V . A k i m o v110, K. Al Khoury 132, G. L. Alberghi 23a,23b,
J. Albert176, M. J. Alconada Verzini161, S. Alderweireldt36, M. Aleksa36, I. N. Aleksandrov79,C .A l e x a27b, D. Alexandre19,
T. Alexopoulos10, A. Alfonsi 120, M. Alhroob 128,B . A l i142, G. Alimonti 68a, J. Alison 37, S. P. Alkire 148, C. Allaire 132,
B. M. M. Allbrooke156, B .W .A l l e n131, P .P .A l l p o r t21, A. Aloisio 69a,69b, A. Alonso 40, F. Alonso 88, C. Alpigiani 148,
A. A. Alshehri57, M. Alvarez Estevez 98, D. Álvarez Piqueras 174, M .G .A l v i g g i69a,69b, Y . Amaral Coutinho 80b,
A. Ambler103, L. Ambroz135, C. Amelung26, D. Amidei105, S. P. Amor Dos Santos140a, S. Amoroso46, C. S. Amrouche54,
F. An78, C. Anastopoulos149, N. Andari145, T. Andeen11, C. F. Anders61b, J. K. Anders20, A. Andreazza68a,68b, V . Andrei61a,
C. R. Anelli176, S. Angelidakis38, A. Angerami39, A. V . Anisenkov122a,122b, A. Annovi71a, C. Antel61a, M. T. Anthony149,
M. Antonelli51, D .J .A .A n t r i m171, F. Anulli 72a, M. Aoki 81, J. A. Aparisi Pozo 174, L. Aperio Bella 36, G. Arabidze 106,
J. P. Araque140a, V . Araujo Ferraz 80b, R. Araujo Pereira 80b, C. Arcangeletti 51, A .T .H .A r c e49, F. A. Arduh 88,J . -
F. Arguin109, S. Argyropoulos 77, J.-H. Arling 46, A .J .A r m b r u s t e r36, A. Armstrong 171, O. Arnaez 167, H. Arnold 120,
A. Artamonov111,*, G. Artoni135,S .A r t z99,S .A s a i163, N. Asbah59, E. M. Asimakopoulou172, L. Asquith156, J. Assahsah35d,
K. Assamagan29, R. Astalos28a, R. J. Atkin33a, M. Atkinson173,N .B .A t l a y19, H. Atmani132, K. Augsten142, G. Avolio36,
R. Avramidou60a, M. K. Ayoub15a, A. M. Azoulay168b, G. Azuelos109,ay, H. Bachacou145, K. Bachas67a,67b, M. Backes135,
123

===== PAGE 24 =====
970 Page 24 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
F. Backman45a,45b, P. Bagnaia72a,72b, M. Bahmani 84, H. Bahrasemani 152, A. J. Bailey 174, V . R. Bailey173, J. T. Baines144,
M. Bajic40, C. Bakalis10, O. K. Baker183, P. J. Bakker120, D. Bakshi Gupta8, S. Balaji157,E .M .B a l d i n122a,122b, P. Balek180,
F. Balli145, W. K. Balunas 135,J . B a l z99, E. Banas 84, A. Bandyopadhyay 24, Sw. Banerjee 181,j, A. A. E. Bannoura 182,
L. Barak161, W .M .B a r b e38, E. L. Barberio 104, D. Barberis 55a,55b, M. Barbero 101, T. Barillari 115, M.-S. Barisits 36,
J. Barkeloo131, T. Barklow153, R. Barnea160, S. L. Barnes60c, B. M. Barnett144, R. M. Barnett18, Z. Barnovska-Blenessy60a,
A. Baroncelli60a, G. Barone29,A .J .B a r r135, L. Barranco Navarro45a,45b, F. Barreiro98, J. Barreiro Guimarães da Costa 15a,
S. Barsov138, R. Bartoldus153, G. Bartolini101,A .E .B a r t o n89,P .B a r t o s28a, A. Basalaev46, A. Bassalat132,ar,M .J .B a s s o167,
R. L. Bates57, S. Batlamous35e, J. R. Batley32, B. Batool151, M. Battaglia146, M. Bauce72a,72b, F. Bauer145, K. T. Bauer171,
H. S. Bawa31,m, J. B. Beacham 49, T. Beau 136, P. H. Beauchemin 170, F. Becherer 52, P. Bechtle 24, H .C .B e c k 53,
H. P. Beck20,s, K. Becker52, M. Becker99, C. Becot46, A. Beddall12d, A. J. Beddall12a, V . A. Bednyakov79, M. Bedognetti120,
C. P. Bee155, T. A. Beermann 76, M. Begalli 80b, M. Begel 29, A. Behera 155, J .K .B e h r46, F. Beisiegel 24,A . S . B e l l94,
G. Bella161, L. Bellagamba 23b, A. Bellerive 34, P. Bellos 9, K. Beloborodov 122a,122b, K. Belotskiy 112, N. L. Belyaev 112,
D. Benchekroun35a, N. Benekos10, Y . Benhammou161, D. P. Benjamin6, M. Benoit54, J. R. Bensinger 26, S. Bentvelsen120,
L. Beresford135, M. Beretta 51, D. Berge 46, E. Bergeaas Kuutmann 172, N. Berger 5, B. Bergmann 142, L .J .B e r g s t e n26,
J. Beringer18, S. Berlendis 7, N. R. Bernard 102, G. Bernardi 136, C. Bernius 153, T. Berry 93,P . B e r t a99, C. Bertella 15a,
I. A. Bertram89, O. Bessidskaia Bylund 182, N. Besson 145, A. Bethani 100, S. Bethke 115, A. Betti 24, A .J .B e v a n92,
J. Beyer115,R .B i139, R. M. Bianchi139, O. Biebel114, D. Biedermann19, R. Bielski36, K. Bierwagen99,N .V .B i e s u z71a,71b,
M. Biglietti74a, T .R .V .B i l l o u d109, M. Bindi 53, A. Bingul 12d,C . B i n i72a,72b, S. Biondi 23a,23b,M . B i r m a n180, T. Bisanz53,
J. P. Biswal161,D . B i s w a s181,j, A. Bitadze 100, C. Bittrich 48,K . B j ø r k e134, K .M .B l a c k25, T. Blazek 28a, I. Bloch 46,
C. Blocker26,A .B l u e57, U. Blumenschein92, G. J. Bobbink 120, V . S. Bobrovnikov122a,122b, S. S. Bocchetta 96, A. Bocci49,
D. Boerner46, D. Bogavac 14, A. G. Bogdanchikov 122a,122b, C. Bohm 45a, V . Boisvert 93, P. Bokan 53,172,T . B o l d83a,
A. S. Boldyrev113,A .E .B o l z61b, M. Bomben136, M. Bona92, J. S. Bonilla131, M. Boonekamp145, H. M. Borecka-Bielska90,
A. Borisov123, G. Borissov 89, J. Bortfeldt 36, D. Bortoletto 135, V . Bortolotto 73a,73b, D. Boscherini 23b,M . B o s m a n14,
J. D. Bossio Sola103, K. Bouaouda 35a, J. Boudreau 139, E. V . Bouhova-Thacker 89, D. Boumediene 38, S. K. Boutle 57,
A. Boveia126,J . B o y d36,D . B o y e33b,as, I .R .B o y k o79, A. J. Bozson 93, J. Bracinik 21, N. Brahimi 101, G. Brandt 182,
O. Brandt32, F. Braren 46,B . B r a u 102, J .E .B r a u 131, W. D. Breaden Madden 57, K. Brendlinger 46, L. Brenner 46,
R. Brenner172, S. Bressler 180, B. Brickwedde 99, D. L. Briglin 21, D. Britton 57, D. Britzger 115, I. Brock 24, R. Brock 106,
G. Brooijmans39, W. K. Brooks 147b,E . B r o s t121, J. H. Broughton 21, P. A. Bruckman de Renstrom 84, D. Bruncko 28b,
A. Bruni23b, G. Bruni 23b, L. S. Bruni 120, S. Bruno 73a,73b, B .H .B r u n t32, M. Bruschi 23b,N . B r u s c i n o139, P. Bryant 37,
L. Bryngemark96, T. Buanes17, Q. Buat36, P. Buchholz151, A. G. Buckley57, I. A. Budagov79, M. K. Bugge134, F. Bührer52,
O. Bulekov112, T .J .B u r c h121, S. Burdin 90, C .D .B u r g a r d120, A. M. Burger 129, B. Burghgrave 8, J .T .P .B u r r46,
J. C. Burzynski102, V . Büscher99, E. Buschmann 53, P. J. Bussey 57, J .M .B u t l e r25, C .M .B u t t a r57, J. M. Butterworth 94,
P. Butti36, W. Buttinger 36, A. Buzatu 158, A. R. Buzykaev 122a,122b, G. Cabras 23a,23b, S. Cabrera Urbán 174, D. Caforio 56,
H. Cai173, V .M .M .C a i r o153, O. Cakir 4a, N. Calace 36, P. Calaﬁura 18, A. Calandri 101, G. Calderini 136, P. Calfayan 65,
G. Callea57, L. P. Caloba 80b, S. Calvente Lopez 98,D . C a l v e t38,S . C a l v e t38,T . P . C a l v e t155, M. Calvetti 71a,71b,
R. Camacho Toro136, S. Camarda 36, D. Camarero Munoz 98, P. Camarri73a,73b, D. Cameron 134, R. Caminal Armadans 102,
C. Camincher36, S. Campana 36, M. Campanelli 94, A. Camplani 40, A. Campoverde 151, V . Canale69a,69b, A. Canesse 103,
M. Cano Bret60c, J. Cantero 129,T . C a o161,Y . C a o173, M. D. M. Capeans Garrido 36, M. Capua 41a,41b, R. Cardarelli 73a,
F. Cardillo149, G. Carducci 41a,41b,I . C a r l i143,T . C a r l i36, G. Carlino 69a, B. T. Carlson 139, L. Carminati 68a,68b,
R. M. D. Carney45a,45b, S. Caron 119, E. Carquin 147b, S. Carrá 46, J .W .S .C a r t e r167, M. P. Casado 14,e, A. F. Casha 167,
D. W. Casper171, R. Castelijn 120, F. L. Castillo 174, V . Castillo Gimenez 174,N . F . C a s t r o140a,140e, A. Catinaccio 36,
J. R. Catmore134, A. Cattai 36, J. Caudron 24, V . Cavaliere29, E. Cavallaro 14, M. Cavalli-Sforza 14, V . Cavasinni71a,71b,
E. Celebi12b, F. Ceradini 74a,74b, L. Cerda Alberich 174,K . C e r n y130, A. S. Cerqueira 80a,A . C e r r i156, L. Cerrito 73a,73b,
F. Cerutti18, A. Cervelli 23a,23b, S. A. Cetin 12b, Z. Chadi 35a, D. Chakraborty 121, S. K. Chan 59, W. S. Chan 120,
W. Y . Chan90, J. D. Chapman 32, B. Chargeishvili 159b, D .G .C h a r l t o n21, T .P .C h a r m a n92, C. C. Chau 34,S . C h e126,
A. Chegwidden106, S. Chekanov6, S. V . Chekulaev168a,G .A .C h e l k o v79,ax,M .A .C h e l s t o w s k a36, B. Chen78, C. Chen60a,
C. H. Chen78, H. Chen 29, J. Chen 60a, J. Chen 39, S. Chen 137, S .J .C h e n15c, X. Chen 15b,aw, Y . Chen82, Y-H. Chen 46,
H. C. Cheng63a, H. J. Cheng 15a,15d, A. Cheplakov 79, E. Cheremushkina 123, R. Cherkaoui El Moursli 35e, E. Cheu 7,
K. Cheung64,T .J .A .C h e v a l é r i a s145, L. Chevalier145, V . Chiarella51, G. Chiarelli71a, G. Chiodini67a, A. S. Chisholm36,21,
A. Chitan27b,I . C h i u 163,Y . H . C h i u176, M. V . Chizhov 79, K. Choi 65, A. R. Chomont 72a,72b, S. Chouridou 162,
Y. S . C h ow120, M .C .C h u 63a,X . C h u 15a, J. Chudoba 141, A. J. Chuinard 103, J. J. Chwastowski 84,L . C h y t k a130,
D. Cieri115, K .M .C i e s l a84, D. Cinca 47, V . Cindro91, I. A. Cioar˘a27b, A. Ciocio 18, F. Cirotto 69a,69b, Z. H. Citron 180,k,
M. Citterio68a, D. A. Ciubotaru 27b, B. M. Ciungu 167,A . C l a r k54, M .R .C l a r k39,P . J . C l a r k50, C. Clement 45a,45b,
123

===== PAGE 25 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 25 of 36 970
Y . Coadou101, M. Cobal66a,66c, A. Coccaro55b, J. Cochran78, H. Cohen161,A .E .C .C o i m b r a36, L. Colasurdo119,B .C o l e39,
A. P. Colijn120, J. Collot58, P. Conde Muiño140a,f, E. Coniavitis52, S. H. Connell33b, I. A. Connelly57, S. Constantinescu27b,
F. Conventi69a,az, A. M. Cooper-Sarkar 135, F. Cormier 175, K .J .R .C o r m i e r167, L .D .C o r p e94, M. Corradi 72a,72b,
E. E. Corrigan96, F. Corriveau 103,ae, A. Cortes-Gonzalez 36, M .J .C o s t a174, F. Costanza 5, D. Costanzo 149,G . C o w a n93,
J. W. Cowley32, J. Crane 100, K. Cranmer 124,S . J . C r a w l e y57, R. A. Creager 137, S. Crépé-Renaudin 58, F. Crescioli 136,
M. Cristinziani24,V . C r o f t120, G. Crosetti 41a,41b, A. Cueto 5, T. Cuhadar Donszelmann 149, A. R. Cukierman 153,
S. Czekierda84, P. Czodrowski 36, M. J. Da Cunha Sargedas De Sousa 60b, J. V . Da Fonseca Pinto 80b,C . D a V i a 100,
W. Dabrowski83a, T. Dado 28a, S. Dahbi 35e,T . D a i105, C. Dallapiccola 102,M . D a m40,G . D ’ a m e n29, V . D’Amico74a,74b,
J. Damp99, J. R. Dandoy 137, M. F. Daneri 30, N. P. Dang 181,j, N .S .D a n n100, M. Danninger 175,V . D a o36, G. Darbo 55b,
O. Dartsi5, A. Dattagupta 131, T. Daubney 46,S . D ’ A u r i a68a,68b, W. Davey 24,C . D a v i d46, T. Davidek 143,D . R . D a v i s49,
I. Dawson149,K . D e 8, R. De Asmundis 69a, M. De Beurs 120,S . D e C a s t r o23a,23b, S. De Cecco 72a,72b, N. De Groot 119,
P. de Jong120,H .D el aT o r r e106,A .D eM a r i a15c, D. De Pedis72a, A. De Salvo72a, U. De Sanctis73a,73b, M. De Santis73a,73b,
A. De Santo156, K. De Vasconcelos Corga 101, J .B .D eV i v i eD eR e g i e132, C. Debenedetti 146, D. V . Dedovich 79,
A. M. Deiana42, M. Del Gaudio 41a,41b, J. Del Peso 98, Y . Delabat Diaz46, D. Delgove 132, F. Deliot 145,r, C. M. Delitzsch 7,
M. Della Pietra69a,69b, D. Della V olpe 54, A. Dell’Acqua 36, L. Dell’Asta 73a,73b,M . D e l m a s t r o5, C. Delporte 132,
P. A. Delsart58, D. A. DeMarco 167, S. Demers 183, M. Demichev 79, G. Demontigny 109, S. P. Denisov123, D. Denysiuk 120,
L. D’Eramo136, D. Derendarz 84, J. E. Derkaoui 35d, F. Derue 136,P . D e r v a n90, K. Desch 24, C. Deterre 46, K. Dette 167,
C. Deutsch24,M .R .D e v e s a30,P .O .D e v i v e i r o s36, A. Dewhurst144,F .A .D iB e l l o54, A. Di Ciaccio 73a,73b, L. Di Ciaccio 5,
W. K. Di Clemente137, C. Di Donato 69a,69b,A .D iG i r o l a m o36,G .D iG r e g o r i o71a,71b, B. Di Micco 74a,74b, R. Di Nardo 102,
K. F. Di Petrillo59, R. Di Sipio 167, D. Di Valentino 34, C. Diaconu 101,F . A . D i a s40,T . D i a s D o V a l e140a, M .A .D i a z147a,
J. Dickinson18, E. B. Diehl105, J. Dietrich19, S. Díez Cornell46, A. Dimitrievska18,W .D i n g15b, J. Dingfelder24, F. Dittus36,
F. Djama101, T. Djobava 159b, J. I. Djuvsland 17, M .A .B .D oV a l e80c, M. Dobre 27b, D. Dodsworth 26, C. Doglioni 96,
J. Dolejsi143, Z. Dolezal 143, M. Donadelli 80d, B. Dong 60c, J. Donini 38, A. D’onofrio 92, M. D’Onofrio 90, J. Dopke 144,
A. Doria69a,M . T . D o v a88, A .T .D o y l e57, E. Drechsler 152, E. Dreyer 152, T. Dreyer 53, A. S. Drobac 170, Y . Duan60b,
F. Dubinin110, M. Dubovsky 28a, A. Dubreuil 54, E. Duchovni 180, G. Duckeck 114, A. Ducourthial 136, O. A. Ducu 109,
D. Duda115, A. Dudarev36, A. C. Dudder99, E. M. Dufﬁeld18, L. Duﬂot132, M. Dührssen36,C .D ü l s e n182, M. Dumancic180,
A. E. Dumitriu27b, A. K. Duncan 57, M. Dunford 61a, A. Duperrin 101, H. Duran Yildiz 4a, M. Düren 56, A. Durglishvili 159b,
D. Duschinger48, B. Dutta 46, D. Duvnjak 1, G. I. Dyckes 137, M. Dyndal 36, S. Dysch 100, B. S. Dziedzic 84,K .M .E c k e r115,
R. C. Edgar105, M. G. Eggleston49,T .E i f e r t36, G. Eigen17, K. Einsweiler18,T .E k e l o f172,H .E lJ a r r a r i35e, M. El Kacimi35c,
R. El Kosseiﬁ101, V . Ellajosyula172, M. Ellert172, F. Ellinghaus182, A. A. Elliot92, N. Ellis36, J. Elmsheuser29,M .E l s i n g36,
D. Emeliyanov144,A .E m e r m a n39, Y . Enari163, M. B. Epland49, J. Erdmann47, A. Ereditato20, M. Errenst36, M. Escalier132,
C. Escobar174, O. Estrada Pastor 174, E. Etzion 161, H. Evans 65, A. Ezhilov 138, F. Fabbri57, L. Fabbri 23a,23b, V . Fabiani119,
G. Facini94, R. M. Faisca Rodrigues Pereira 140a, R. M. Fakhrutdinov 123, S. Falciano 72a,P . J . F a l k e5,S . F a l k e5,
J. Faltova143, Y . Fang 15a, Y . Fang 15a, G. Fanourakis 44, M. Fanti 68a,68b, M. Faraj 66a,66c,u, A. Farbin 8, A. Farilla 74a,
E. M. Farina70a,70b, T. Farooque 106,S . F a r r e l l18, S. M. Farrington 50, P. Farthouat 36, F. Fassi 35e, P. Fassnacht 36,
D. Fassouliotis9, M. Faucci Giannelli 50, W .J .F a w c e t t32, L. Fayard 132, O. L. Fedin 138,p, W. Fedorko 175, M. Feickert 42,
L. Feligioni101, A. Fell 149, C. Feng 60b, E. J. Feng 36, M. Feng 49, M. J. Fenton 57, A. B. Fenyuk 123, J. Ferrando 46,
A. Ferrante173, A. Ferrari 172, P. Ferrari 120, R. Ferrari 70a, D .E .F e r r e i r ad eL i m a61b, A. Ferrer 174, D. Ferrere 54,
C. Ferretti105, F. Fiedler 99, A. Filipˇ ciˇc91, F. Filthaut 119, K. D. Finelli 25, M .C .N .F i o l h a i s140a,140c,a,L . F i o r i n i174,
F. Fischer114, W. C. Fisher106, I. Fleck151, P. Fleischmann105, R. R. M. Fletcher137, T. Flick182, B. M. Flierl114,L .F l o r e s137,
L. R. Flores Castillo63a, F. M. Follega75a,75b,N .F o m i n17,J .H .F o o167, G. T. Forcolin75a,75b, A. Formica145,F .A .F ö r s t e r14,
A. C. Forti100, A .G .F o s t e r21, M .G .F o t i135, D. Fournier 132,H . F o x 89, P. Francavilla 71a,71b, S. Francescato 72a,72b,
M. Franchini23a,23b, S. Franchino 61a, D. Francis 36, L. Franconi 20, M. Franklin 59, A .N .F r a y92, P. M. Freeman 21,
B. Freund109, W. S. Freund 80b, E. M. Freundlich 47, D. C. Frizzell 128, D. Froidevaux 36, J .A .F r o s t135, C. Fukunaga 164,
E. Fullana Torregrosa174, E. Fumagalli 55a,55b, T. Fusayasu 116, J. Fuster 174, A. Gabrielli 23a,23b, A. Gabrielli 18,
G. P. Gach83a, S. Gadatsch 54, P. Gadow 115, G. Gagliardi 55a,55b, L. G. Gagnon 109, C. Galea 27b, B. Galhardo 140a,
G. E. Gallardo135, E. J. Gallas 135, B .J .G a l l o p144, G. Galster 40, R. Gamboa Goni 92, K .K .G a n 126, S. Ganguly 180,
J. Gao60a,Y . G a o50,Y . S . G a o31,m, C. García 174, J. E. García Navarro 174, J. A. García Pascual 15a, C. Garcia-Argos 52,
M. Garcia-Sciveres18, R. W. Gardner 37, N. Garelli 153, S. Gargiulo 52, V . Garonne134, A. Gaudiello 55a,55b, G. Gaudio 70a,
I. L. Gavrilenko110, A. Gavrilyuk111,C .G a y175, G. Gaycken46, E. N. Gazis10, A. A. Geanta27b,C .N .P .G e e144,J .G e i s e n53,
M. Geisen99, M. P. Geisler 61a, C. Gemme 55b, M. H. Genest 58, C. Geng 105, S. Gentile 72a,72b, S. George 93, T. Geralis 44,
L. O. Gerlach53, P. Gessinger-Befurt99, G. Gessner47, S. Ghasemi151, M. Ghasemi Bostanabad176, A. Ghosh132, A. Ghosh77,
B. Giacobbe23b, S. Giagu72a,72b, N. Giangiacomi23a,23b, P. Giannetti71a, A. Giannini69a,69b, G. Giannini14,S .M .G i b s o n93,
123

===== PAGE 26 =====
970 Page 26 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
M. Gignac146, D. Gillberg 34, G. Gilles 182, D .M .G i n g r i c h3,ay, M. P. Giordani 66a,66c,F . M . G i o r g i23b, P. F. Giraud 145,
G. Giugliarelli66a,66c, D. Giugni68a, F. Giuli73a,73b, S. Gkaitatzis162, I. Gkialas9,h, E. L. Gkougkousis14, P. Gkountoumis10,
L. K. Gladilin113,C . G l a s m a n98, J. Glatzer 14, P. C. F. Glaysher46, A. Glazov 46, G .R .G l e d h i l l131, M. Goblirsch-Kolb 26,
S. Goldfarb104, T. Golling54, D. Golubkov123, A. Gomes140a,140b, R. Goncalves Gama53, R. Gonçalo140a,140b, G. Gonella52,
L. Gonella21, A. Gongadze 79, F. Gonnella 21, J. L. Gonski 59, S. González de la Hoz 174, S. Gonzalez-Sevilla 54,
G. R. Gonzalvo Rodriguez174, L. Goossens 36, P. A. Gorbounov 111, H. A. Gordon 29,B . G o r i n i36,E . G o r i n i67a,67b,
A. Gorišek91, A .T .G o s h a w49, M .I .G o s t k i n79, C. A. Gottardo 119, M. Gouighri 35b, D. Goujdami 35c, A .G .G o u s s i o u148,
N. Govender33b,C . G o y 5, E. Gozani 160, I. Grabowska-Bold 83a, E. C. Graham 90, J. Gramling 171,E . G r a m s t a d134,
S. Grancagnolo19, M. Grandi156, V . Gratchev138, P. M. Gravila27f, F. G. Gravili67a,67b,C .G r a y57,H .M .G r a y18,C .G r e f e24,
K. Gregersen96,I .M .G r e g o r46, P. Grenier153,K .G r e v t s o v46, C. Grieco 14,N .A .G r i e s e r128,J .G r i f ﬁ t h s8, A. A. Grillo 146,
K. Grimm31,l, S. Grinstein 14,z,J . - F . G r i v a z132,S . G r o h99,E . G r o s s180, J. Grosse-Knetter 53, Z .J .G r o u t94,C . G r u d105,
A. Grummer118, L. Guan 105, W. Guan 181, J. Guenther 36, A. Guerguichon 132, J. G. R. Guerrero Rojas 174, F. Guescini 115,
D. Guest171, R. Gugel52, T. Guillemin5, S. Guindon36,U .G u l57,J .G u o60c,W .G u o105,Y .G u o60a,t,Z .G u o101, R. Gupta46,
S. Gurbuz12c, G. Gustavino 128, P. Gutierrez 128, C. Gutschow 94, C. Guyot 145, C. Gwenlan 135, C. B. Gwilliam 90,
A. Haas124, C. Haber 18, H. K. Hadavand 8, N. Haddad 35e, A. Hadef 60a, S. Hageböck 36, M. Haleem 177,J . H a l e y129,
G. Halladjian106, G. D. Hallewell 101, K. Hamacher 182, P. Hamal 130, K. Hamano 176, H. Hamdaoui 35e, G. N. Hamity 149,
K. Han60a,al,L . H a n60a,S . H a n15a,15d, Y .F .H a n167, K. Hanagaki 81,x, M. Hance 146, D. M. Handl 114, B. Haney 137,
R. Hankache136, E. Hansen 96, J. B. Hansen 40, J. D. Hansen 40, M. C. Hansen 24, P. H. Hansen 40, E. C. Hanson 100,
K. Hara169,A . S . H a r d181, T. Harenberg 182, S. Harkusha 107, P. F. Harrison 178, N. M. Hartmann 114, Y. Hasegawa 150,
A. Hasib50, S. Hassani145, S. Haug20, R. Hauser106, L. B. Havener39, M. Havranek142,C .M .H a w k e s21, R. J. Hawkings36,
D. Hayden106, C. Hayes 155, R. L. Hayes 175, C. P. Hays 135, J .M .H a y s 92, H. S. Hayward 90, S. J. Haywood 144,
F. He60a, M. P. Heath 50, V . Hedberg 96, L. Heelan 8, S. Heer 24, K. K. Heidegger 52, W. D. Heidorn 78, J. Heilman 34,
S. Heim46,T . H e i m18, B. Heinemann 46,at, J .J .H e i n r i c h131, L. Heinrich 36, C. Heinz 56, J. Hejbal 141, L. Helary 61b,
A. Held175, S. Hellesund 134, C. M. Helling 146, S. Hellman 45a,45b, C. Helsens 36, R. C. W. Henderson 89, Y . Heng 181,
S. Henkelmann175, A. M. Henriques Correia 36, G. H. Herbert 19, H. Herde 26, V . Herget 177, Y . Hernández Jiménez 33c,
H. Herr99, M .G .H e r r m a n n114, T. Herrmann 48,G . H e r t e n52, R. Hertenberger 114,L . H e r v a s36,T . C . H e r w i g137,
G. G. Hesketh94, N. P. Hessey168a, A. Higashida 163, S. Higashino 81, E. Higón-Rodriguez 174, K. Hildebrand 37, E. Hill 176,
J. C. Hill32, K .K .H i l l29, K. H. Hiller 46, S. J. Hillier 21, M. Hils 48, I. Hinchliffe 18, F. Hinterkeuser 24,M . H i r o s e133,
S. Hirose52, D. Hirschbuehl 182, B. Hiti 91, O. Hladik 141, D .R .H l a l u k u33c, X. Hoad 50, J. Hobbs 155,N . H o d 180,
M. C. Hodgkinson149, A. Hoecker 36, F. Hoenig 114, D. Hohn 52, D. Hohov 132,T . R . H o l m e s37, M. Holzbock 114,
L.B.A.H Hommels32, S. Honda 169, T. M. Hong 139, A. Hönle 115, B. H. Hooberman 173, W. H. Hopkins 6,Y . H o r i i117,
P. Horn48, L .A .H o r y n37,S . H o u158, A. Hoummada 35a,J . H o w a r t h100,J . H o y a88, M. Hrabovsky 130, J. Hrdinka 76,
I. Hristova19, J. Hrivnac 132, A. Hrynevich 108, T. Hryn’ova5,P . J . H s u64,S . - C . H s u148,Q . H u29,S . H u60c, D. P. Huang94,
Y . Huang60a, Y . Huang15a, Z. Hubacek142, F. Hubaut101, M. Huebner24, F. Huegging24, T. B. Huffman135, M. Huhtinen36,
R. F. H. Hunter34,P . H u o155, A .M .H u p e34, N. Huseynov 79,ag,J . H u s t o n106,J . H u t h59, R. Hyneman 105, S. Hyrych 28a,
G. Iacobucci54, G. Iakovidis 29, I. Ibragimov 151, L. Iconomidou-Fayard 132, Z. Idrissi 35e, P. Iengo 36, R. Ignazzi 40,
O. Igonkina120,ab,*, R. Iguchi 163,T . I i z a w a54,Y . I k e g a m i81, M. Ikeno 81, D. Iliadis 162, N. Ilic 119,167,ae, F. Iltzsche 48,
G. Introzzi70a,70b, M. Iodice 74a, K. Iordanidou 168a, V . Ippolito 72a,72b, M. F. Isacson 172,M . I s h i n o163, W. Islam 129,
C. Issever135, S. Istin 160,F . I t o169, J. M. Iturbe Ponce 63a, R. Iuppa 75a,75b, A. Ivina 180, H. Iwasaki 81, J .M .I z e n43,
V . Izzo69a, P. Jacka 141, P. Jackson 1, R. M. Jacobs 24, B. P. Jaeger 152,V . J a i n2, G. Jäkel 182, K. B. Jakobi 99, K. Jakobs 52,
S. Jakobsen76, T. Jakoubek 141,J . J a m i e s o n57, K. W. Janas 83a, R. Jansky 54, J. Janssen 24, M. Janus 53, P. A. Janus 83a,
G. Jarlskog96, N. Javadov79,ag,T .J a v ˚urek36, M. Javurkova52, F. Jeanneau145, L. Jeanty131, J. Jejelava159a,ah, A. Jelinskas178,
P. Jenni52,b, J. Jeong 46, N. Jeong 46, S. Jézéquel 5,H . J i181,J . J i a155, H. Jiang 78, Y . Jiang60a, Z. Jiang 153,q, S. Jiggins 52,
F. A. Jimenez Morales38, J. Jimenez Pena 115,S . J i n15c, A. Jinaru 27b, O. Jinnouchi 165,H . J i v a n33c, P. Johansson 149,
K. A. Johns7, C. A. Johnson 65, K. Jon-And 45a,45b, R. W. L. Jones 89, S. D. Jones 156, S. Jones 7, T. J. Jones 90,
J. Jongmanns61a, P. M. Jorge 140a, J. Jovicevic 36,X . J u 18, J. J. Junggeburth 115, A. Juste Rozas 14,z, A. Kaczmarska 84,
M. Kado72a,72b, H. Kagan 126, M. Kagan 153, C. Kahra 99,T . K a j i179, E. Kajomovitz 160, C. W. Kalderon 96, A. Kaluza 99,
A. Kamenshchikov123, L. Kanjir91, Y . Kano163,V .A .K a n t s e r o v112, J. Kanzaki81, L. S. Kaplan181,D .K a r33c,K .K a r a v a135,
M. J. Kareem168b,S .N .K a r p o v79, Z. M. Karpova79, V . Kartvelishvili89, A. N. Karyukhin123, L. Kashif181,R .D .K a s s126,
A. Kastanas45a,45b,C . K a t o60c,60d, J. Katzy 46, K. Kawade 150, K. Kawagoe 87, T. Kawaguchi 117, T. Kawamoto 163,
G. Kawamura53, E .F .K a y 176, V . F. Kazanin 122a,122b, R. Keeler 176, R. Kehoe 42, J. S. Keller 34, E. Kellermann 96,
D. Kelsey156, J .J .K e m p s t e r21, J. Kendrick 21, O. Kepka 141, S. Kersten 182, B. P. Kerševan 91, S. Ketabchi Haghighat 167,
M. Khader173, F. Khalil-Zada 13, M. Khandoga 145, A. Khanov 129, A .G .K h a r l a m o v122a,122b, T. Kharlamova 122a,122b,
123

===== PAGE 27 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 27 of 36 970
E. E. Khoda175, A. Khodinov 166, T. J. Khoo 54, E. Khramov 79, J. Khubua 159b,S . K i d o82, M. Kiehn 54, C .R .K i l b y93,
Y . K. Kim37,N .K i m u r a94,O .M .K i n d19,B .T .K i n g90,*, D. Kirchmeier48,J .K i r k144, A. E. Kiryunin115, T. Kishimoto163,
D. P. Kisliuk167, V . Kitali 46,O . K i v e r n y k5, T. Klapdor-Kleingrothaus 52, M. Klassen 61a, M .H .K l e i n105, M. Klein 90,
U. Klein90, K. Kleinknecht 99, P. Klimek 121, A. Klimentov 29, T. Klingl 24, T. Klioutchnikova 36, F. F. Klitzner 114,
P. Kluit120, S. Kluth115, E. Kneringer76, E. B. F. G. Knoops101, A. Knue52, D. Kobayashi87, T. Kobayashi163, M. Kobel48,
M. Kocian153, P. Kodys143, P. T. Koenig24,T .K o f f a s34, N. M. Köhler36,T .K o i153,M .K o l b61b, I. Koletsou5, T. Komarek130,
T. Kondo81, N. Kondrashova 60c, K. Köneke 52, A .C .K ö n i g119, T. Kono 125, R. Konoplich 124,ao, V . Konstantinides94,
N. Konstantinidis94, B. Konya 96, R. Kopeliansky 65, S. Koperny 83a,K . K o r c y l84, K. Kordas 162, G. Koren 161,A . K o r n94,
I. Korolkov14, E. V . Korolkova149, N. Korotkova 113, O. Kortner 115, S. Kortner 115, T. Kosek 143, V . V . Kostyukhin166,
A. Kotwal49, A. Koulouris 10, A. Kourkoumeli-Charalampidi 70a,70b, C. Kourkoumelis 9, E. Kourlitis 149, V . Kouskoura29,
A. B. Kowalewska84, R. Kowalewski 176, C. Kozakai 163, W. Kozanecki 145, A. S. Kozhin 123, V . A. Kramarenko 113,
G. Kramberger91, D. Krasnopevtsev 60a, M .W .K r a s n y136, A. Krasznahorkay 36, D. Krauss 115, J .A .K r e m e r83a,
J. Kretzschmar90, P. Krieger 167, F. Krieter 114, A. Krishnan 61b, K. Krizka 18, K. Kroeninger 47, H. Kroha 115,J . K r o l l141,
J. Kroll137, J. Krstic 16, U. Kruchonak 79, H. Krüger 24, N. Krumnack 78, M. C. Kruse 49, J .A .K r z y s i a k84, T. Kubota 104,
O. Kuchinskaia166, S. Kuday 4b, J. T. Kuechler 46, S. Kuehn 36, A. Kugel 61a, T. Kuhl 46, V . Kukhtin 79, R. Kukla 101,
Y . Kulchitsky107,ak, S. Kuleshov147b, Y . P. Kulinich173, M. Kuna58, T. Kunigo85, A. Kupco141, T. Kupfer47, O. Kuprash52,
H. Kurashige82, L. L. Kurchaninov 168a, Y . A. Kurochkin 107,A . K u r o v a112,M . G . K u r t h15a,15d, E. S. Kuwertz 36,
M. Kuze165,A . K . K v a m148, J. Kvita 130,T . K w a n103,A . L a R o s a115, L. La Rotonda 41a,41b,F . L a R u f f a41a,41b,
C. Lacasta174, F. Lacava 72a,72b, D .P .J .L a c k100, H. Lacker 19, D. Lacour 136, E. Ladygin 79, R. Lafaye 5, B. Laforge 136,
T. Lagouri33c,S . L a i53, S. Lammers 65, W. Lampl 7, C. Lampoudis 162, E. Lançon 29, U. Landgraf 52, M. P. J. Landon 92,
M. C. Lanfermann54, V . S. Lang 46, J. C. Lange 53, R. J. Langenberg 36, A. J. Lankford 171, F. Lanni 29, K. Lantzsch 24,
A. Lanza70a, A. Lapertosa 55a,55b, S. Laplace 136, J. F. Laporte 145,T . L a r i68a, F. Lasagni Manghi 23a,23b, M. Lassnig 36,
T. S. Lau63a, A. Laudrain 132, A. Laurier 34, M. Lavorgna 69a,69b, M. Lazzaroni 68a,68b,B . L e 104,E . L e G u i r r i e c101,
M. LeBlanc7, T. LeCompte 6, F. Ledroit-Guillon 58,C . A . L e e29,G . R . L e e17,L . L e e 59,S . C . L e e158, S .J .L e e 34,
B. Lefebvre168a, M. Lefebvre 176, F. Legger 114, C. Leggett 18, K. Lehmann 152, N. Lehmann 182, G. Lehmann Miotto 36,
W. A. Leight46,A . L e i s o s162,y, M .A .L .L e i t e80d, C. E. Leitgeb 114, R. Leitner 143, D. Lellouch 180,*, K .J .C .L e n e y42,
T. Lenz24, B. Lenzi 36, R. Leone 7, S. Leone 71a, C. Leonidopoulos 50, A. Leopold 136, G. Lerner 156,C . L e r o y109,
R. Les167,C . G . L e s t e r32, M. Levchenko 138, J. Levêque 5,D . L e v i n105,L . J . L e v i n s o n180, D .J .L e w i s21,B . L i 15b,
B. Li105,C - Q . L i60a,F . L i 60c,H . L i 60a,H . L i 60b,J . L i 60c,K . L i 153,L . L i 60c,M . L i 15a,Q . L i 15a,15d, Q .Y .L i 60a,
S. Li60c,60d,X . L i 46,Y . L i46,Z . L i 60b, Z. Liang 15a, B. Liberti 73a, A. Liblong 167,K . L i e63c,S . L i e m120, C .Y .L i n32,
K. Lin106, T .H .L i n99, R .A .L i n c k65, J. H. Lindon 21, A. L. Lionti 54, E. Lipeles 137, A. Lipniacka 17, M. Lisovyi 61b,
T. M. Liss173,av, A. Lister 175, A .M .L i t k e146, J. D. Little 8,B . L i u78,B . L . L i u6,H . B . L i u29,H . L i u105, J .B .L i u60a,
J. K. K. Liu135,K . L i u136,M . L i u60a,P . L i u18,Y . L i u15a,15d,Y . L . L i u105,Y . W . L i u60a,M . L i v a n70a,70b,A . L l e r e s58,
J. Llorente Merino152,S . L . L l o y d92,C . Y . L o63b,F . L o S t e r z o42, E. M. Lobodzinska 46, P. Loch 7, S. Loffredo 73a,73b,
T. Lohse19, K. Lohwasser149, M. Lokajicek141,J .D .L o n g173, R. E. Long89, L. Longo36, K. A. Looper126, J. A. Lopez147b,
I. Lopez Paz100, A. Lopez Solis149, J. Lorenz114, N. Lorenzo Martinez5, M. Losada22, P. J. Lösel114,A .L ö s l e52,X .L o u46,
X. Lou15a, A. Lounis132, J. Love6,P .A .L o v e89, J. J. Lozano Bahilo174,M .L u60a,Y .J .L u64,H .J .L u b a t t i148, C. Luci72a,72b,
A. Lucotte58, C. Luedtke 52, F. Luehring 65,I . L u i s e136, L. Luminari 72a, B. Lund-Jensen 154,M . S . L u t z102, D. Lynn 29,
R. Lysak141,E .L y t k e n96,F .L y u15a, V . Lyubushkin79, T. Lyubushkina79,H .M a29,L .L .M a60b,Y .M a60b, G. Maccarrone51,
A. Macchiolo115, C. M. Macdonald 149, J. Machado Miguens 137, D. Madaffari 174, R. Madar 38, W. F. Mader 48,
N. Madysa48, J. Maeda 82, S. Maeland 17, T. Maeno 29, M. Maerker 48, A. S. Maevskiy 113, V . Magerl52, N. Magini 78,
D. J. Mahon39, C. Maidantchik 80b, T. Maier 114,A . M a i o140a,140b,140d,K . M a j 83a, O. Majersky 28a,S . M a j e w s k i131,
Y . Makida81, N. Makovec 132, B. Malaescu 136, Pa. Malecki 84, V . P. Maleev138, F. Malek 58, U. Mallik 77, D. Malon 6,
C. Malone32, S. Maltezos10, S. Malyukov79, J. Mamuzic174, G. Mancini51, I. Mandi´c91, L. Manhaes de Andrade Filho 80a,
I. M. Maniatis162, J. Manjarres Ramos48, K. H. Mankinen96, A. Mann114, A. Manousos76, B. Mansoulie145, I. Manthos162,
S. Manzoni120, A. Marantis 162, G. Marceca 30, L. Marchese 135, G. Marchiori 136, M. Marcisovsky 141, C. Marcon 96,
C. A. Marin Tobon36, M. Marjanovic 38, Z. Marshall 18, M.U.F Martensson 172, S. Marti-Garcia 174, C. B. Martin 126,
T. A. Martin178,V .J .M a r t i n50, B. Martin dit Latour17, L. Martinelli74a,74b, M. Martinez14,z, V . I. Martinez Outschoorn102,
S. Martin-Haugh144, V . S. Martoiu27b, A. C. Martyniuk 94, A. Marzin 36, S. R. Maschek 115, L. Masetti 99, T. Mashimo 163,
R. Mashinistov110,J . M a s i k100, A. L. Maslennikov 122a,122b, L. Massa 73a,73b, P. Massarotti 69a,69b, P. Mastrandrea 71a,71b,
A. Mastroberardino41a,41b, T. Masubuchi 163, D. Matakias 10, A. Matic 114, P. Mättig 24, J. Maurer 27b,B . M a ˇcek91,
D. A. Maximov122a,122b, R. Mazini 158, I. Maznas 162, S. M. Mazza 146, S .P .M cK e e 105, T. G. McCarthy 115,
W. P. McCormack18, E. F. McDonald 104, J. A. Mcfayden 36, M .A .M c K a y42, K. D. McLean 176, S. J. McMahon 144,
123

===== PAGE 28 =====
970 Page 28 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
P. C. McNamara104, C. J. McNicol178, R. A. McPherson176,ae, J. E. Mdhluli33c, Z. A. Meadows102, S. Meehan36,T .M e g y52,
S. Mehlhase114, A. Mehta 90, T. Meideck 58, B. Meirose 43, D. Melini 174, B. R. Mellado Garcia 33c, J. D. Mellenthin 53,
M. Melo28a, F. Meloni 46, A. Melzer 24, S. B. Menary 100, E. D. Mendes Gouveia 140a,140e, L. Meng 36, X. T. Meng 105,
S. Menke115, E. Meoni 41a,41b, S. Mergelmeyer 19, S .A .M .M e r k t139, C. Merlassino 20,P . M e r m o d54, L. Merola 69a,69b,
C. Meroni68a, O. Meshkov 110,113, J. K. R. Meshreki 151, A. Messina 72a,72b, J. Metcalfe 6,A . S . M e t e171, C. Meyer 65,
J. Meyer160, J-P. Meyer145, H. Meyer Zu Theenhausen 61a, F. Miano 156, M. Michetti 19, R. P. Middleton144, L. Mijovi´c50,
G. Mikenberg180, M. Mikestikova141, M. Mikuž91, H. Mildner149, M. Milesi104, A. Milic167, D. A. Millar92, D. W. Miller37,
A. Milov180, D .A .M i l s t e a d45a,45b, R .A .M i n a153,q, A. A. Minaenko 123, M. Miñano Moya 174, I. A. Minashvili 159b,
A. I. Mincer124, B. Mindur 83a, M. Mineev 79, Y . Minegishi163,Y . M i n g181, L .M .M i r14, A. Mirto 67a,67b, K. P. Mistry137,
T. Mitani179, J. Mitrevski 114, V . A. Mitsou174, M. Mittal 60c,O . M i u167, A. Miucci 20, P. S. Miyagawa149, A. Mizukami 81,
J. U. Mjörnmark96, T. Mkrtchyan 184, M. Mlynarikova 143,T . M o a45a,45b, K. Mochizuki 109, P. Mogg 52, S. Mohapatra 39,
R. Moles-Valls24, M. C. Mondragon106, K. Mönig46, J. Monk40, E. Monnier101, A. Montalbano152, J. Montejo Berlingen36,
M. Montella94, F. Monticelli88, S. Monzani68a, N. Morange132, D. Moreno22, M. Moreno Llácer36, C. Moreno Martinez14,
P. Morettini55b, M. Morgenstern 120, S. Morgenstern 48,D . M o r i152,M . M o r i i59, M. Morinaga 179, V . Morisbak 134,
A. K. Morley36, G. Mornacchi 36, A. P. Morris 94,L . M o r v a j155, P. Moschovakos 36, B. Moser 120, M. Mosidze 159b,
T. Moskalets145, H .J .M o s s149,J . M o s s31,n, E .J .W .M o y s e102, S. Muanza 101, J. Mueller 139, R .S .P .M u e l l e r114,
D. Muenstermann89, G. A. Mullier 96, J. L. Munoz Martinez 14, F. J. Munoz Sanchez 100,P . M u r i n28b, W .J .M u r r a y144,178,
A. Murrone68a,68b, M. Muškinja 18,C . M w e w a33a, A. G. Myagkov 123,ap, J. Myers 131, M. Myska 142, B. P. Nachman 18,
O. Nackenhorst47,A . N a g N a g48, K. Nagai 135, K. Nagano 81, Y . Nagasaka62, M. Nagel 52, E. Nagy 101,A . M . N a i r z36,
Y . Nakahama117, K. Nakamura 81, T. Nakamura 163, I. Nakano 127, H. Nanjo 133, F. Napolitano 61a, R. F. Naranjo Garcia 46,
R. Narayan42, I. Naryshkin 138, T. Naumann 46,G . N a v a r r o22, H. A. Neal 105,*, P. Y . Nechaeva 110, F. Nechansky 46,
T. J. Neep21,A . N e g r i70a,70b,M . N e g r i n i23b, C. Nellist 53,M . E . N e l s o n135, S. Nemecek 141, P. Nemethy124, M. Nessi 36,d,
M. S. Neubauer173, M. Neumann 182, P. R. Newman 21,Y . S . N g19, Y .W .Y .N g171,B . N g a i r35e, H. D. N. Nguyen 101,
T. Nguyen Manh109, E. Nibigira 38,R . B . N i c k e r s o n135, R. Nicolaidou 145, D. S. Nielsen 40, J. Nielsen 146, N. Nikiforou 11,
V . Nikolaenko123,ap, I. Nikolic-Audit 136, K. Nikolopoulos 21, P. Nilsson29, H. R. Nindhito 54, Y . Ninomiya81,A . N i s a t i72a,
N. Nishu60c, R. Nisius 115, I. Nitsche 47, T. Nitta 179, T. Nobe 163, Y . Noguchi 85, I. Nomidis 136, M. A. Nomura 29,
M. Nordberg36, N. Norjoharuddeen 135,T . N o v a k91, O. Novgorodova 48, R. Novotny 142, L. Nozka 130, K. Ntekas 171,
E. Nurse94, F. G. Oakham 34,ay, H. Oberlack 115, J. Ocariz 136, A. Ochi 82, I. Ochoa 39, J. P. Ochoa-Ricoux 147a,
K. O’Connor26,S . O d a87, S. Odaka 81, S. Oerdek 53, A. Ogrodnik 83a,A . O h100,S . H . O h49,C . C . O h m154,H . O i d e165,
M. L. Ojeda167,H . O k a w a169, Y . Okazaki 85, Y . Okumura 163, T. Okuyama 81,A . O l a r i u27b, L. F. Oleiro Seabra 140a,
S. A. Olivares Pino147a, D. Oliveira Damazio 29,J . L . O l i v e r1, M .J .R .O l s s o n171, A. Olszewski 84, J. Olszowska 84,
D. C. O’Neil152, A. P. O’neill 135, A. Onofre 140a,140e, P .U .E .O n y i s i11, H. Oppen 134, M. J. Oreglia 37, G. E. Orellana 88,
D. Orestano74a,74b, N. Orlando 14,R . S . O r r 167, V . O’Shea 57, R. Ospanov 60a, G. Otero y Garzon 30, H. Otono 87,
P. S. Ott61a, M. Ouchrif 35d, J. Ouellette 29, F. Ould-Saada 134, A. Ouraou 145, Q. Ouyang 15a, M. Owen 57, R. E. Owen 21,
V . E. Ozcan12c, N. Ozturk 8, J. Pacalt 130, H .A .P a c e y32, K. Pachal 49, A. Pacheco Pages 14, C. Padilla Aranda 14,
S. Pagan Griso18, M. Paganini 183, G. Palacino 65, S. Palazzo 50, S. Palestini 36, M. Palka 83b, D. Pallin 38, I. Panagoulias 10,
C. E. Pandini36, J. G. Panduro Vazquez93, P. Pani46, G. Panizzo66a,66c, L. Paolozzi54, C. Papadatos109, K. Papageorgiou9,h,
S. Parajuli43, A. Paramonov6, D. Paredes Hernandez63b, S. R. Paredes Saenz135,B .P a r i d a166,T .H .P a r k167,A .J .P a r k e r89,
M. A. Parker32, F. Parodi 55a,55b, E .W .P .P a r r i s h121, J. A. Parsons 39, U. Parzefall 52, L. Pascual Dominguez 136,
V . R. Pascuzzi167, J. M. P. Pasner 146, E. Pasqualucci 72a, S. Passaggio 55b,F . P a s t o r e93, P. Pasuwan 45a,45b, S. Pataraia 99,
J. R. Pater100, A. Pathak 181,j, T. Pauly 36, B. Pearson 115, M. Pedersen 134, L. Pedraza Diaz 119, R. Pedro 140a, T. Peiffer 53,
S. V . Peleganchuk122a,122b, O. Penc 141, H. Peng 60a, B. S. Peralva 80a, M. M. Perego 132, A. P. Pereira Peixoto 140a,
D. V . Perepelitsa29, F. Peri 19, L. Perini 68a,68b, H. Pernegger 36, S. Perrella 69a,69b, K. Peters 46, R. F. Y . Peters 100,
B. A. Petersen36, T. C. Petersen40, E. Petit 101, A. Petridis 1, C. Petridou 162, P. Petroff132, M. Petrov 135, F. Petrucci74a,74b,
M. Pettee183, N. E. Pettersson 102, K. Petukhova 143, A. Peyaud 145, R. Pezoa 147b, L. Pezzotti 70a,70b, T. Pham 104,
F. H. Phillips106, P. W. Phillips 144, M. W. Phipps 173, G. Piacquadio 155, E. Pianori 18, A. Picazio 102, R. H. Pickles 100,
R. Piegaia30, D. Pietreanu 27b, J. E. Pilcher 37, A. D. Pilkington 100, M. Pinamonti 73a,73b, J .L .P i n f o l d3, M. Pitt 161,
L. Pizzimento73a,73b, M.-A. Pleier 29,V . P l e s k o t143, E. Plotnikova 79, P. Podberezko 122a,122b, R. Poettgen 96, R. Poggi 54,
L. Poggioli132, I. Pogrebnyak106, D. Pohl24, I. Pokharel53, G. Polesello70a, A. Poley18, A. Policicchio72a,72b, R. Polifka143,
A. Polini23b, C. S. Pollard 46, V . Polychronakos29, D. Ponomarenko 112, L. Pontecorvo 36, S. Popa 27a, G. A. Popeneciu 27d,
L. Portales5, D. M. Portillo Quintero 58, S. Pospisil 142, K. Potamianos 46, I .N .P o t r a p79, C .J .P o t t e r32, H. Potti 11,
T. Poulsen96, J. Poveda 36, T .D .P o w e l l149, G. Pownall 46, M. E. Pozo Astigarraga 36, P. Pralavorio 101,S . P r e l l78,
D. Price100,M . P r i m a v e r a67a, S. Prince 103, M .L .P r o f ﬁ t t148, N. Proklova 112, K. Prokoﬁev 63c,F . P r o k o s h i n79,
123

===== PAGE 29 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 29 of 36 970
S. Protopopescu29, J. Proudfoot 6, M. Przybycien 83a, D. Pudzha 138, A. Puri 173, P. Puzo 132,J . Q i a n105,Y . Q i n100,
A. Quadt53, M. Queitsch-Maitland 46, A. Qureshi 1, M. Racko 28a, P. Rados 104, F. Ragusa 68a,68b, G. Rahal 97,
J. A. Raine54, S. Rajagopalan 29, A. Ramirez Morales 92,K . R a n15a,15d, T. Rashid 132, S. Raspopov 5, D. M. Rauch 46,
F. Rauscher114,S . R a v e 99,B . R a v i n a149, I. Ravinovich 180, J. H. Rawling 100, M. Raymond 36, A. L. Read 134,
N. P. Readioff58, M. Reale 67a,67b, D. M. Rebuzzi 70a,70b, A. Redelbach 177, G. Redlinger 29,K . R e e v e s43, L. Rehnisch 19,
J. Reichert137, D. Reikher 161,A . R e i s s99,A . R e j151, C. Rembser 36, M. Renda 27b, M. Rescigno 72a, S. Resconi 68a,
E. D. Resseguie137, S. Rettie 175, E. Reynolds 21, O. L. Rezanova 122a,122b, P. Reznicek 143, E. Ricci 75a,75b, R. Richter 115,
S. Richter46, E. Richter-Was 83b,O . R i c k e n24, M. Ridel 136, P. Rieck 115, C .J .R i e g e l182,O . R i f k i46, M. Rijssenbeek 155,
A. Rimoldi70a,70b, M. Rimoldi 46, L. Rinaldi 23b, G. Ripellino 154,I . R i u14, J. C. Rivera Vergara 176, F. Rizatdinova 129,
E. Rizvi92, C. Rizzi 36, R. T. Roberts 100, S. H. Robertson 103,ae, M. Robin 46, D. Robinson 32, J. E. M. Robinson 46,
C. M. Robles Gajardo147b, A. Robson 57, A. Rocchi 73a,73b, E. Rocco 99, C. Roda 71a,71b, S. Rodriguez Bosca 174,
A. Rodriguez Perez14, D. Rodriguez Rodriguez 174, A. M. Rodríguez Vera 168b,S . R o e36, O. Røhne 134, R. Röhrig 115,
C. P. A. Roland65, J. Roloff 59, A. Romaniouk 112, M. Romano 23a,23b, N. Rompotis 90, M. Ronzani 124, L. Roos 136,
S. Rosati72a, K. Rosbach 52,G . R o s i n102, B. J. Rosser 137, E. Rossi 46, E. Rossi 74a,74b, E. Rossi 69a,69b, L. P. Rossi 55b,
L. Rossini68a,68b,R . R o s t e n14, M. Rotaru 27b, J. Rothberg 148, D. Rousseau 132, G. Rovelli 70a,70b,A . R o y11,D . R o y33c,
A. Rozanov101, Y . Rozen160, X. Ruan 33c, F. Rubbo 153, F. Rühr 52, A. Ruiz-Martinez 174, A. Rummler 36,Z . R u r i k o v a52,
N. A. Rusakovich79, H. L. Russell 103, L. Rustige 38,47, J. P. Rutherfoord7, E. M. Rüttinger 149, M. Rybar 39, G. Rybkin 132,
E. B. Rye134, A. Ryzhov 123, G. F. Rzehorz 53, P. Sabatini 53, G. Sabato 120, S. Sacerdoti 132, H.F-W. Sadrozinski 146,
R. Sadykov79, F. Safai Tehrani 72a, B. Safarzadeh Samani 156, P. Saha 121, S. Saha 103, M. Sahinsoy 61a, A. Sahu 182,
M. Saimpert46, M. Saito 163, T. Saito 163, H. Sakamoto 163, A. Sakharov 124,ao, D. Salamani 54, G. Salamanna 74a,74b,
J. E. Salazar Loyola147b, P. H. Sales De Bruin 172, A. Salnikov 153, J. Salt 174, D. Salvatore 41a,41b, F. Salvatore 156,
A. Salvucci63a,63b,63c, A. Salzburger36, J. Samarati36, D. Sammel52, D. Sampsonidis162, D. Sampsonidou162, J. Sánchez174,
A. Sanchez Pineda66a,66c, H. Sandaker 134, C. O. Sander 46, I. G. Sanderswood 89, M. Sandhoff 182, C. Sandoval 22,
D. P. C. Sankey144, M. Sannino 55a,55b, Y . Sano 117, A. Sansoni 51, C. Santoni 38, H. Santos 140a,140b, S. N. Santpur 18,
A. Santra174, A. Sapronov79, J. G. Saraiva140a,140d, O. Sasaki81, K. Sato169, F. Sauerburger52, E. Sauvan5,P .S a v a r d167,ay,
N. Savic115, R. Sawada 163, C. Sawyer 144, L. Sawyer 95,am, C. Sbarra 23b, A. Sbrizzi 23a, T. Scanlon94, J. Schaarschmidt 148,
P. Schacht115, B. M. Schachtner 114, D. Schaefer 37, L. Schaefer 137, J. Schaeffer 99, S. Schaepe 36, U. Schäfer 99,
A. C. Schaffer132, D. Schaile 114, R. D. Schamberger 155, N. Scharmberg 100, V . A. Schegelsky 138, D. Scheirich 143,
F. Schenck19, M. Schernau 171, C. Schiavi 55a,55b, S. Schier 146, L. K. Schildgen 24, Z. M. Schillaci 26, E. J. Schioppa 36,
M. Schioppa41a,41b, K. E. Schleicher 52, S. Schlenker 36, K. R. Schmidt-Sommerfeld 115, K. Schmieden 36, C. Schmitt 99,
S. Schmitt46, S. Schmitz 99, J. C. Schmoeckel 46, U. Schnoor 52, L. Schoeffel 145, A. Schoening 61b, P. G. Scholer 52,
E. Schopf135, M. Schott 99, J. F. P. Schouwenberg 119, J. Schovancova 36, S. Schramm 54, F. Schroeder 182, A. Schulte 99,
H-C. Schultz-Coulon61a, M. Schumacher 52, B. A. Schumm 146, Ph. Schune 145, A. Schwartzman 153, T. A. Schwarz 105,
Ph. Schwemling145, R. Schwienhorst106, A. Sciandra146, G. Sciolla26, M. Scodeggio46, M. Scornajenghi41a,41b, F. Scuri71a,
F. Scutti104, L. M. Scyboz 115, C. D. Sebastiani 72a,72b, P. Seema 19, S. C. Seidel 118, A. Seiden 146, B. D. Seidlitz 29,
T. Seiss37, J. M. Seixas 80b, G. Sekhniaidze 69a, K. Sekhon 105, S. J. Sekula 42, N. Semprini-Cesari 23a,23b, S. Sen 49,
S. Senkin38, C. Serfon 76, L. Serin 132, L. Serkin 66a,66b, M. Sessa 60a,H . S e v e r i n i128, T. Šﬁligoj 91,F . S f o r z a55a,55b,
A. Sfyrla54, E. Shabalina 53, J. D. Shahinian 146, N. W. Shaikh 45a,45b, D. Shaked Renous 180, L. Y . Shan15a, R. Shang 173,
J. T. Shank25, M. Shapiro 18, A. Sharma 135, A. S. Sharma 1, P. B. Shatalov 111, K. Shaw 156, S .M .S h a w 100,
A. Shcherbakova138, M. Shehade 180, Y . Shen 128, N. Sherafati 34, A. D. Sherman 25, P. Sherwood 94, L. Shi 158,au,
S. Shimizu81, C. O. Shimmin183, Y . Shimogama179, M. Shimojima116, I. P. J. Shipsey135, S. Shirabe87, M. Shiyakova79,ac,
J. Shlomi180, A. Shmeleva110, M. J. Shochet37, J. Shojaii104, D. R. Shope128, S. Shrestha126, E. M. Shrif33c, E. Shulga180,
P. Sicho141, A. M. Sickles 173, P. E. Sidebo 154, E. Sideras Haddad 33c, O. Sidiropoulou 36, A. Sidoti 23a,23b, F. Siegert 48,
Dj. Sijacki16, M. Jr. Silva 181, M. V . Silva Oliveira80a, S. B. Silverstein 45a, S. Simion 132, E. Simioni 99, R. Simoniello 99,
S. Simsek12b, P. Sinervo 167, V . Sinetckii 110,113,N . B . S i n e v131, M. Sioli 23a,23b,I . S i r a l105, S. Yu. Sivoklokov 113,
J. Sjölin45a,45b,E . S k o r d a96, P. Skubic 128, M. Slawinska 84, K. Sliwa 170,R . S l o v a k143, V . Smakhtin180,B . H . S m a r t144,
J. Smiesko28a,N . S m i r n o v112, S. Yu. Smirnov 112,Y . S m i r n o v112, L .N .S m i r n o v a113,v,O . S m i r n o v a96, J. W. Smith 53,
M. Smizanska89,K . S m o l e k142, A. Smykiewicz 84, A. A. Snesarev 110, H. L. Snoek 120, I. M. Snyder 131, S. Snyder 29,
R. Sobie176,ae, A. Soffer 161, A. Søgaard 50, F. Sohns 53, C. A. Solans Sanchez 36, E. Yu. Soldatov 112, U. Soldevila 174,
A. A. Solodkov123, A. Soloshenko 79, O. V . Solovyanov 123, V . Solovyev 138, P. Sommer 149, H. Son 170, W. Song 144,
W. Y . Song168b, A. Sopczak 142, F. Sopkova 28b, C. L. Sotiropoulou 71a,71b, S. Sottocornola 70a,70b, R. Soualah 66a,66c,g,
A. M. Soukharev122a,122b, D. South 46, S. Spagnolo 67a,67b, M. Spalla 115, M. Spangenberg 178, F. Spanò 93, D. Sperlich 52,
T. M. Spieker61a, R. Spighi23b, G. Spigo36, M. Spina156, D. P. Spiteri57, M. Spousta143, A. Stabile68a,68b,B .L .S t a m a s121,
123

===== PAGE 30 =====
970 Page 30 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
R. Stamen61a, M. Stamenkovic 120, E. Stanecka 84, B. Stanislaus 135, M. M. Stanitzki 46, M. Stankaityte 135, B. Stapf 120,
E. A. Starchenko123,G .H .S t a r k146,J .S t a r k58,S .H .S t a r k40, P. Staroba141, P. Starovoitov61a,S .S t ä r z103, R. Staszewski84,
G. Stavropoulos44, M. Stegler46, P. Steinberg29, A. L. Steinhebel131, B. Stelzer152,H .J .S t e l z e r139, O. Stelzer-Chilton168a,
H. Stenzel56, T. J. Stevenson 156,G . A . S t e w a r t36, M. C. Stockton 36, G. Stoicea 27b, M. Stolarski 140a, S. Stonjek 115,
A. Straessner48, J. Strandberg 154, S. Strandberg 45a,45b, M. Strauss 128, P. Strizenec 28b, R. Ströhmer 177,D . M . S t r o m131,
R. Stroynowski42, A. Strubig 50, S. A. Stucci 29, B. Stugu 17, J. Stupak 128, N .A .S t y l e s46,D . S u 153, S. Suchek 61a,
V. V. S u l i n110, M .J .S u l l i v a n90, D .M .S .S u l t a n54, S. Sultansoy 4c, T. Sumida 85, S. Sun 105, X. Sun 3, K. Suruliz 156,
C. J. E. Suster157, M. R. Sutton 156, S. Suzuki 81,M . S v a t o s141, M. Swiatlowski 37,S . P . S w i f t2, T. Swirski 177,
A. Sydorenko99, I. Sykora 28a, M. Sykora 143, T. Sykora 143,D . T a 99, K. Tackmann 46,aa, J. Taenzer 161,A . T a f f a r d171,
R. Taﬁrout168a, H. Takai 29, R. Takashima 86, K. Takeda 82, T. Takeshita 150, E .P .T a k e v a50, Y . Takubo81, M. Talby 101,
A. A. Talyshev122a,122b, N .M .T a m i r161, J. Tanaka 163, M. Tanaka 165, R. Tanaka 132, S. Tapia Araya 173, S. Tapprogge 99,
A. Tarek Abouelfadl Mohamed136, S. Tarem160, G. Tarna27b,c, G. F. Tartarelli68a,P . T a s143,M . T a s e v s k y141, T. Tashiro85,
E. Tassi41a,41b, A. Tavares Delgado 140a,140b, Y . Tayalati35e, A. J. Taylor 50, G. N. Taylor 104, W. Taylor 168b,A . S . T e e89,
R. Teixeira De Lima153, P. Teixeira-Dias 93,H . T e n K a t e36, J. J. Teoh 120, S. Terada 81, K. Terashi 163,J . T e r r o n98,
S. Terzo14,M . T e s t a51, R. J. Teuscher 167,ae, S. J. Thais 183, T. Theveneaux-Pelzer 46, F. Thiele 40, D. W. Thomas 93,
J. O. Thomas42, J. P. Thomas21, A. S. Thompson57, P. D. Thompson21,L .A .T h o m s e n183, E. Thomson137, E. J. Thorpe92,
Y. Ti a n39, R. E. Ticse Torres 53, V . O. Tikhomirov 110,aq, Yu. A. Tikhonov 122a,122b, S. Timoshenko 112, P. Tipton 183,
S. Tisserant101, K. Todome 23a,23b, S. Todorova-Nova 5, S. Todt 48,J . T o j o87, S. Tokár 28a, K. Tokushuku 81, E. Tolley 126,
K. G. Tomiwa33c, M. Tomoto 117, L. Tompkins 153,q, B. Tong 59, P. Tornambe 102, E. Torrence 131,H . T o r r e s48,
E. Torró Pastor148, C. Tosciri 135,J . T o t h 101,ad, D. R. Tovey 149, A. Traeet 17, C. J. Treado 124, T. Trefzger 177,
F. Tresoldi156, A. Tricoli 29, I. M. Trigger 168a, S. Trincaz-Duvoid 136, W. Trischuk 167, B. Trocmé 58, A. Trofymov 145,
C. Troncon68a, M. Trovatelli176,F . T r o v a t o156, L. Truong 33b, M. Trzebinski 84, A. Trzupek 84,F . T s a i46, J.C.-L. Tseng 135,
P. V . Tsiareshka107,ak, A. Tsirigotis 162, N. Tsirintanis 9, V . Tsiskaridze 155, E. G. Tskhadadze 159a, M. Tsopoulou 162,
I. I. Tsukerman111, V . Tsulaia18, S. Tsuno81, D. Tsybychev155,Y .T u63b, A. Tudorache27b, V . Tudorache27b,T .T .T u l b u r e27a,
A. N. Tuna59, S. Turchikhin 79, D. Turgeman 180, I. Turk Cakir 4b,w, R. J. Turner 21,R . T . T u r r a68a,P . M . T u t s39,
S. Tzamarias162,E . T z o v a r a99, G. Ucchielli 47, K. Uchida 163, I. Ueda 81, M. Ughetto 45a,45b,F . U k e g a w a169, G. Unal 36,
A. Undrus29, G. Unel 171, F .C .U n g a r o104, Y . Unno81,K . U n o163, J. Urban 28b, P. Urquijo 104,G . U s a i8, Z. Uysal 12d,
L. Vacavant101, V . Vacek142, B. Vachon 103, K .O .H .V a d l a134, A. Vaidya 94, C. Valderanis 114, E. Valdes Santurio 45a,45b,
M. Valente54, S. Valentinetti 23a,23b, A. Valero 174, L. Valéry 46, R. A. Vallance 21, A. Vallier 36, J .A .V a l l sF e r r e r174,
T. R. Van Daalen14, P. Van Gemmeren 6, I. Van Vulpen 120, M. Vanadia 73a,73b, W. Vandelli 36, A. Vaniachine 166,
D. Vannicola72a,72b,R . V a r i 72a, E. W. Varnes 7, C. Varni 55a,55b, T. Varol 42, D. Varouchas 132,K . E . V a r v e l l157,
M. E. Vasile27b, G. A. Vasquez 176, J. G. Vasquez 183, F. Vazeille 38, D. Vazquez Furelos 14, T. Vazquez Schroeder 36,
J. Veatch53, V . Vecchio74a,74b, M .J .V e e n120, L. M. Veloce 167, F. Veloso 140a,140c, S. Veneziano 72a, A. Ventura 67a,67b,
N. Venturi36, A. Verbytskyi 115, V . Vercesi70a, M. Verducci 71a,71b, C. M. Vergel Infante 78, C. Vergis 24,W . V e r k e r k e120,
A. T. Vermeulen120, J. C. Vermeulen120,M .C .V e t t e r l i152,ay, N. Viaux Maira147b, M. Vicente Barreto Pinto54,T .V i c k e y149,
O. E. Vickey Boeriu149, G. H. A. Viehhauser 135, L. Vigani 61b, M. Villa 23a,23b, M. Villaplana Perez 68a,68b, E. Vilucchi 51,
M. G. Vincter34, G. S. Virdee 21, A. Vishwakarma 46, C. Vittori 23a,23b, I. Vivarelli 156, M. V ogel 182, P. V okac 142,
S. E. von Buddenbrock33c, E. V on Toerne24, V . V orobel143, K. V orobev112,M . V o s174, J. H. V ossebeld90, M. V ozak100,
N. Vranjes16, M. Vranjes Milosavljevic 16,V . V r b a142, M. Vreeswijk 120, R. Vuillermet 36, I. Vukotic 37, P. Wagner 24,
W. Wagner182, J. Wagner-Kuhr 114, S. Wahdan 182, H. Wahlberg 88, V . M. Walbrecht 115, J. Walder 89,R . W a l k e r114,
S. D. Walker93, W. Walkowiak151, V . Wallangen45a,45b, A. M. Wang59, C. Wang60c, C. Wang60b, F. Wang181, H. Wang18,
H. Wang3, J. Wang 157, J. Wang 61b, P. Wang 42, Q. Wang 128, R.-J. Wang 99, R. Wang 60a, R. Wang 6, S. M. Wang 158,
W. T. Wang60a, W. Wang 15c,af, W. X. Wang 60a,af, Y . Wang 60a,an, Z. Wang 60c, C. Wanotayaroj 46, A. Warburton 103,
C. P. Ward32, D. R. Wardrope 94, N. Warrack 57, A. Washbrook 50, A .T .W a t s o n21,M . F . W a t s o n21, G. Watts 148,
B. M. Waugh94, A. F. Webb11, S. Webb99, C. Weber183, M. S. Weber20, S. A. Weber34, S. M. Weber61a, A. R. Weidberg135,
J. Weingarten47, M. Weirich 99,C . W e i s e r52, P. S. Wells 36, T. Wenaus 29, T. Wengler 36, S. Wenig 36,N . W e r m e s24,
M. D. Werner78, M. Wessels 61a,T . D . W e s t o n20, K. Whalen 131, N. L. Whallon 148, A. M. Wharton 89, A. S. White 105,
A. White8, M. J. White 1, D. Whiteson 171, B .W .W h i t m o r e89, W. Wiedenmann 181, M. Wielers 144, N. Wieseotte 99,
C. Wiglesworth40, L. A. M. Wiik-Fuchs52, F. Wilk100, H. G. Wilkens36, L. J. Wilkins93, H. H. Williams137, S. Williams32,
C. Willis106, S. Willocq 102, J. A. Wilson 21, I. Wingerter-Seez 5, E. Winkels 156, F. Winklmeier 131,O . J . W i n s t o n156,
B. T. Winter52, M. Wittgen 153, M. Wobisch95,A . W o l f99, T .M .H .W o l f120,R . W o l f f101, R .W .W ö l k e r135, J. Wollrath52,
M. W. Wolter84, H. Wolters140a,140c,V .W .S .W o n g175, N. L. Woods146,S .D .W o r m21,B .K .W o s i e k84,K .W .W o ´zniak84,
K. Wraight57,S .L .W u181,X .W u54,Y .W u60a, T. R. Wyatt100, B. M. Wynne50, S. Xella40,Z .X i105,L .X i a178,X .X i a o105,
123

===== PAGE 31 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 31 of 36 970
D. Xu15a,H . X u 60a,c,L . X u 29,T . X u145,W . X u105,Z . X u 60b,Z . X u 153, B. Yabsley 157, S. Yacoob 33a, K. Yajima 133,
D. P. Yallup94, D. Yamaguchi 165, Y . Yamaguchi165, A. Yamamoto 81, M. Yamatani 163, T. Yamazaki 163, Y . Yamazaki82,
Z. Yan25, H. J. Yang 60c,60d, H .T .Y a n g18, S. Yang 77, X. Yang 58,60b, Y . Yang163,W . - M . Y a o18,Y . C . Y a p46,Y . Y a s u81,
E. Yatsenko60c,60d,J . Y e 42,S . Y e 29, I. Yeletskikh 79,M . R . Y e x l e y89, E. Yigitbasi 25, K. Yorita 179, K. Yoshihara 137,
C. J. S. Young36, C. Young153,J .Y u78, R. Yuan60b,i,X .Y u e61a,S .P .Y .Y u e n24, B. Zabinski84, G. Zacharis10, E. Zaffaroni54,
J. Zahreddine136, A. M. Zaitsev123,ap, T. Zakareishvili159b, N. Zakharchuk34, S. Zambito59, D. Zanzi36, D. R. Zaripovas57,
S. V . Zeißner47, C. Zeitnitz 182, G. Zemaityte 135, J. C. Zeng 173, O. Zenin 123, T. Ženiš 28a,D . Z e r w a s132, M. Zgubiˇc135,
D. F. Zhang15b, F. Zhang181, G. Zhang 15b, H. Zhang 15c, J. Zhang 6, L. Zhang 15c, L. Zhang 60a, M. Zhang 173, R. Zhang 24,
X. Zhang60b, Y . Zhang15a,15d, Z. Zhang63a, Z. Zhang132, P. Zhao49, Y . Zhao60b, Z. Zhao60a, A. Zhemchugov79, Z. Zheng105,
D. Zhong173, B. Zhou 105, C. Zhou 181,M .S .Z h o u15a,15d, M. Zhou 155, N. Zhou 60c, Y . Zhou7,C .G .Z h u60b,H .L .Z h u60a,
H. Zhu15a,J . Z h u105,Y . Z h u60a, X. Zhuang 15a, K. Zhukov 110, V . Zhulanov122a,122b, D. Zieminska 65, N .I .Z i m i n e79,
S. Zimmermann52, Z. Zinonos 115, M. Ziolkowski 151,L . Ž i v k o v i ´c16, G. Zobernig 181, A. Zoccoli 23a,23b, K. Zoch 53,
T. G. Zorbas149,R .Z o u37, L. Zwalinski36
1 Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia
2 Physics Department, SUNY Albany, Albany, NY, USA
3 Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
4 (a)Department of Physics, Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey;(b)Istanbul Aydin University, Istanbul, Turkey;(c)Division
of Physics, TOBB University of Economics and Technology, Ankara, Turkey
5 LAPP, Université Grenoble Alpes, Université Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS/IN2P3, Annecy, France
6 High Energy Physics Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL, USA
7 Department of Physics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
8 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX, USA
9 Physics Department, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
10 Physics Department, National Technical University of Athens, Zografou, Greece
11 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA
12 (a)Bahcesehir University, Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey;(b)Istanbul Bilgi University,
Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey;(c)Department of Physics, Bogazici University, Istanbul,
Turkey;(d)Department of Physics Engineering, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey
13 Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
14 Institut de Física d’Altes Energies (IFAE), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain
15 (a)Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; (b)Physics Department, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China;(c)Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China;(d)University of Chinese
Academy of Science (UCAS), Beijing, China
16 Institute of Physics, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia
17 Department for Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
18 Physics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA
19 Institut für Physik, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany
20 Albert Einstein Center for Fundamental Physics and Laboratory for High Energy Physics, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland
21 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
22 Facultad de Ciencias y Centro de Investigaciónes, Universidad Antonio Nariño, Bogota, Colombia
23 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, INFN Bologna and Universita’ di Bologna, Bologna, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Bologna,
Bologna, Italy
24 Physikalisches Institut, Universität Bonn, Bonn, Germany
25 Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA
26 Department of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, USA
27 (a)Transilvania University of Brasov, Brasov, Romania;(b)Horia Hulubei National Institute of Physics and Nuclear
Engineering, Bucharest, Romania; (c)Department of Physics, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi, Iasi,
Romania; (d)Physics Department, National Institute for Research and Development of Isotopic and Molecular
Technologies, Cluj-Napoca, Romania;(e)University Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania;(f)West University in
Timisoara, Timisoara, Romania
123

===== PAGE 32 =====
970 Page 32 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
28 (a)Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovakia;(b)Department of
Subnuclear Physics, Institute of Experimental Physics of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Kosice, Slovak Republic
29 Physics Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY, USA
30 Departamento de Física, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina
31 California State University, CA, USA
32 Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK
33 (a)Department of Physics, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa;(b)Department of Mechanical
Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa;(c)School of Physics, University of the
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
34 Department of Physics, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada
35 (a)Faculté des Sciences Ain Chock, Réseau Universitaire de Physique des Hautes Energies-Université Hassan II,
Casablanca, Morocco; (b)Faculté des Sciences, Université Ibn-Tofail, Kénitra, Morocco;(c)Faculté des Sciences
Semlalia, LPHEA-Marrakech, Université Cadi Ayyad, Marrakesh, Morocco;(d)Faculté des Sciences, Université
Mohamed Premier and LPTPM, Oujda, Morocco; (e)Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed V, Rabat, Morocco
36 CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
37 Enrico Fermi Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA
38 LPC, Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS/IN2P3, Clermont-Ferrand, France
39 Nevis Laboratory, Columbia University, Irvington, NY, USA
40 Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
41 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università della Calabria, Rende, Italy;(b)Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, INFN Gruppo
Collegato di Cosenza, Cosenza, Italy
42 Physics Department, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, USA
43 Physics Department, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, TX, USA
44 National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research “Demokritos”, Agia Paraskevi, Greece
45 (a)Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden;(b)Oskar Klein Centre, Stockholm, Sweden
46 Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg and Zeuthen, Germany
47 Lehrstuhl für Experimentelle Physik IV, Technische Universität Dortmund, Dortmund, Germany
48 Institut für Kern- und Teilchenphysik, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany
49 Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA
50 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK
51 INFN e Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
52 Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
53 II. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
54 Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Genève, Switzerland
55 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Genova, Genoa, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Genova, Genoa, Italy
56 II. Physikalisches Institut, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, Giessen, Germany
57 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK
58 LPSC, Université Grenoble Alpes, CNRS/IN2P3, Grenoble INP, Grenoble, France
59 Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA
60 (a)Department of Modern Physics and State Key Laboratory of Particle Detection and Electronics, University of Science
and Technology of China, Hefei, China;(b)Institute of Frontier and Interdisciplinary Science and Key Laboratory of
Particle Physics and Particle Irradiation (MOE), Shandong University, Qingdao, China;(c)School of Physics and
Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, KLPPAC-MoE, SKLPPC, Shanghai, China;(d)Tsung-Dao Lee Institute,
Shanghai, China
61 (a)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany;(b)Physikalisches Institut,
Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany
62 Faculty of Applied Information Science, Hiroshima Institute of Technology, Hiroshima, Japan
63 (a)Department of Physics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China;(b)Department of Physics,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China;(c)Department of Physics and Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China
64 Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
65 Department of Physics, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA
123

===== PAGE 33 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 33 of 36 970
66 (a)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Udine, Sezione di Trieste, Udine, Italy;(b)ICTP, Trieste, Italy;(c)Dipartimento Politecnico
di Ingegneria e Architettura, Università di Udine, Udine, Italy
67 (a)INFN Sezione di Lecce, Zona Monte, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università del Salento, Lecce,
Italy
68 (a)INFN Sezione di Milano, Milan, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Milano, Milan, Italy
69 (a)INFN Sezione di Napoli, Naples, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Napoli, Napoli, Italy
70 (a)INFN Sezione di Pavia, Pavia, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Pavia, Pavia, Italy
71 (a)INFN Sezione di Pisa, Pisa, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica E. Fermi, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy
72 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma, Rome, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy
73 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome,
Italy
74 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tre, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università Roma Tre, Rome, Italy
75 (a)INFN-TIFPA, Povo, Italy;(b)Università degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy
76 Institut für Astro- und Teilchenphysik, Leopold-Franzens-Universität, Innsbruck, Austria
77 University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
78 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA
79 Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
80 (a)Departamento de Engenharia Elétrica, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora (UFJF), Juiz de Fora,
Brazil; (b)Universidade Federal do Rio De Janeiro COPPE/EE/IF, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;(c)Universidade Federal de São
João del Rei (UFSJ), São João del Rei, Brazil; (d)Instituto de Física, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil
81 KEK, High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan
82 Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan
83 (a)AGH University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, Krakow,
Poland; (b)Marian Smoluchowski Institute of Physics, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
84 Institute of Nuclear Physics Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland
85 Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
86 Kyoto University of Education, Kyoto, Japan
87 Research Center for Advanced Particle Physics and Department of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka , Japan
88 Instituto de Física La Plata, Universidad Nacional de La Plata and CONICET, La Plata, Argentina
89 Physics Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK
90 Oliver Lodge Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK
91 Department of Experimental Particle Physics, Jožef Stefan Institute and Department of Physics, University of Ljubljana,
Ljubljana, Slovenia
92 School of Physics and Astronomy, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK
93 Department of Physics, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK
94 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, UK
95 Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, LA, USA
96 Fysiska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Lund, Sweden
97 Centre de Calcul de l’Institut National de Physique Nucléaire et de Physique des Particules (IN2P3), Villeurbanne,
France
98 Departamento de Física Teorica C-15 and CIAFF, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
99 Institut für Physik, Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany
100 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK
101 CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
102 Department of Physics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA
103 Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada
104 School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
105 Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
106 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
107 B.I. Stepanov Institute of Physics, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, Minsk, Belarus
108 Research Institute for Nuclear Problems of Byelorussian State University, Minsk, Belarus
109 Group of Particle Physics, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada
110 P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia
123

===== PAGE 34 =====
970 Page 34 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
111 Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics of the National Research Centre Kurchatov Institute, Moscow, Russia
112 National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, Moscow, Russia
113 D.V . Skobeltsyn Institute of Nuclear Physics, M.V . Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia
114 Fakultät für Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, München, Germany
115 Max-Planck-Institut für Physik (Werner-Heisenberg-Institut), München, Germany
116 Nagasaki Institute of Applied Science, Nagasaki, Japan
117 Graduate School of Science and Kobayashi-Maskawa Institute, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
118 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USAUSA
119 Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University Nijmegen/Nikhef, Nijmegen, The
Netherlands
120 Nikhef National Institute for Subatomic Physics and University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
121 Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA
122 (a)Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics and NSU, SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia;(b)Novosibirsk State University
Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk, Russia
123 Institute for High Energy Physics of the National Research Centre Kurchatov Institute, Protvino, Russia
124 Department of Physics, New York University, New York, NY, USA
125 Ochanomizu University, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan
126 Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA
127 Faculty of Science, Okayama University, Okayama, Japan
128 Homer L. Dodge Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA
129 Department of Physics, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, USA
130 Palacký University, RCPTM, Joint Laboratory of Optics, Olomouc, Czech Republic
131 Center for High Energy Physics, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, USA
132 LAL, Université Paris-Sud, CNRS/IN2P3, Université Paris-Saclay, Orsay, France
133 Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
134 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
135 Department of Physics, Oxford University, Oxford, UK
136 LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Université de Paris, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
137 Department of Physics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA
138 Konstantinov Nuclear Physics Institute of National Research Centre “Kurchatov Institute”, PNPI, St. Petersburg, Russia
139 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
140 (a)Laboratório de Instrumentação e Física Experimental de Partículas-LIP, Lisbon, Portugal; (b)Departamento de Física,
Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(c)Departamento de Física, Universidade de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; (d)Centro de Física Nuclear da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(e)Departamento de Física,
Universidade do Minho, Braga, Portugal;(f)Universidad de Granada, Granada, Spain;(g)Dep Física and CEFITEC of
Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Caparica, Portugal;(h)Av. Rovisco Pais, 1 1049-001
Lisbon, Portugal, Portugal
141 Institute of Physics of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic
142 Czech Technical University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic
143 Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Prague, Czech Republic
144 Particle Physics Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, UK
145 IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
146 Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA
147 (a)Departamento de Física, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile;(b)Departamento de Física,
Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, Valparaíso, Chile
148 Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, W A, USA
149 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Shefﬁeld, Shefﬁeld, UK
150 Department of Physics, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan
151 Department Physik, Universität Siegen, Siegen, Germany
152 Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada
153 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford, CA, USA
154 Physics Department, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden
155 Departments of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA
123

===== PAGE 35 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970 Page 35 of 36 970
156 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK
157 School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
158 Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
159 (a)E. Andronikashvili Institute of Physics, Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(b)High Energy
Physics Institute, Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
160 Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel
161 Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
162 Department of Physics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece
163 International Center for Elementary Particle Physics and Department of Physics, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
164 Graduate School of Science and Technology, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan
165 Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan
166 Tomsk State University, Tomsk, Russia
167 Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada
168 (a)TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Germany;(b)Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada
169 Division of Physics and Tomonaga Center for the History of the Universe, Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences,
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan
170 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA
171 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA
172 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden
173 Department of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA
174 Instituto de Física Corpuscular (IFIC), Centro Mixto Universidad de Valencia-CSIC, Valencia, Spain
175 Department of Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada
176 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada
177 Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany
178 Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
179 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
180 Department of Particle Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
181 Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA
182 Fakultät für Mathematik und Naturwissenschaften, Fachgruppe Physik, Bergische Universität Wuppertal, Wuppertal,
Germany
183 Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA
184 Yerevan Physics Institute, Yerevan, Armenia
a Also at Borough of Manhattan Community College, City University of New York, New York NY , USA
b Also at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
c Also at CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
d Also at Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Genève, Switzerland
e Also at Departament de Fisica de la Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
f Also at Departamento de Física, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal
g Also at Department of Applied Physics and Astronomy, University of Sharjah, Sharjah„ United Arab Emirates
h Also at Department of Financial and Management Engineering, University of the Aegean, Chios, Greece
i Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing MI, USA
j Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY , USA
k Also at Department of Physics, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, Israel
l Also at Department of Physics, California State University, East Bay, USA
m Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno, USA
n Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Sacramento, USA
o Also at Department of Physics, King’s College London, London, UK
p Also at Department of Physics, St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University, St. Petersburg, Russia
q Also at Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford CA, USA
r Also at Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia
s Also at Department of Physics, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland
t Also at Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, USA
123

===== PAGE 36 =====
970 Page 36 of 36 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :970
u Also at Dipartimento di Matematica, Informatica e Fisica, Università di Udine, Udine, Italy
v Also at Faculty of Physics, M.V . Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia
w Also at Giresun University, Faculty of Engineering, Giresun, Turkey
x Also at Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
y Also at Hellenic Open University, Patras, Greece
z Also at Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avancats, ICREA, Barcelona, Spain
aa Also at Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
ab Also at Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University Nijmegen/Nikhef, Nijmegen,
The Netherlands
ac Also at Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy (INRNE) of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Soﬁa,
Bulgaria
ad Also at Institute for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Budapest, Hungary
ae Also at Institute of Particle Physics (IPP), Vancouver, Canada
af Also at Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
ag Also at Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
ah Also at Institute of Theoretical Physics, Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
ai Also at Instituto de Fisica Teorica, IFT-UAM/CSIC, Madrid, Spain
aj Also at Istanbul University, Dept. of Physics, Istanbul, Turkey
ak Also at Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
al Also at LAL, Université Paris-Sud, CNRS/IN2P3, Université Paris-Saclay, Orsay, France
am Also at Louisiana Tech University, Ruston LA, USA
an Also at LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Université de Paris, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
ao Also at Manhattan College, New York NY , USA
ap Also at Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology State University, Dolgoprudny, Russia
aq Also at National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, Moscow, Russia
ar Also at Physics Department, An-Najah National University, Nablus, Palestine
as Also at Physics Dept, University of South Africa, Pretoria, South Africa
at Also at Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
au Also at School of Physics, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China
av Also at The City College of New York, New York NY , USA
aw Also at The Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter (CICQM), Beijing, China
ax Also at Tomsk State University, Tomsk, and Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology State University, Dolgoprudny,
Russia
ay Also at TRIUMF, Vancouver BC, Canada
az Also at Universita di Napoli Parthenope, Napoli, Italy
∗ Deceased
123