

===== PAGE 1 =====
Journal of Physics:
Conference Series
       
OPEN ACCESS
The new ATLAS track reconstruction (NEWT)
To cite this article: T Cornelissen et al 2008 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 119 032014
 
View the article online for updates and enhancements.
You may also like
Optimization of the LHCb track
reconstruction
Barbara Storaci and on behalf of the LHCb
Collaboration
-
Optimisation of the ATLAS Track
Reconstruction Software for Run-2
Andreas Salzburger and on behalf of the
ATLAS Collaboration
-
Letter of intent for KM3NeT 2.0
S Adrián-Martínez, M Ageron, F Aharonian
et al.
-
This content was downloaded from IP address 112.12.202.97 on 29/01/2026 at 14:29

===== PAGE 2 =====
The new ATLAS Track Reconstruction (NEWT)
T. Cornelissen, M. Elsing, I. Gavrilenko
CERN, Switzerland
W. Liebig
NIKHEF, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
E. Moyse
University of Massachusetts, USA
A. Salzburger 1
Leopold Franzens Universit¨ at Innsbruck, Austria & CERN, Switzerland
on behalf of the A TLAS Inner Detector software group.
Abstract. The track reconstruction of modern high energy physics experiments is a very
complex task that puts stringent requirements onto the software realisation. The ATLAS track
reconstruction software has been in the past dominated by a collection of individual packages,
each of which incorporating a diﬀerent intrinsic event data model, diﬀerent data ﬂow sequences
and calibration data. Recently, the ATLAS track reconstruction has undergone a major design
revolution to ensure maintainability during the long lifetime of the ATLAS experiment and
the ﬂexibility needed for the startup phase. The entire software chain has been re-organised
in modular components and a common event data model has been deployed. A complete new
track reconstruction that concentrates on common tools aimed to be used by both ATLAS
tracking devices, the Inner Detector and the Muon System, has been established. It has been
already used during many large scale tests with data from Monte Carlo simulation and from
detector commissioning projects such as the combined test beam 2004 and cosmic ray events.
This document concentrates on the technical and conceptual details of the newly developed
track reconstruction.
1. Introduction
The preparation of track reconstruction software has been an ongoing ﬁeld of activity in
ATLAS for more than 15 years, starting with ﬁrst track reconstruction packages that have
been written in FORTRAN and which were integrated in the former ATLAS reconstruction
framework ATRECON. Several competing packages existed at that time for the two ATLAS
tracking devices, the Inner Detector (ID) and the Muon Spectrometer (MS). These monolithic
package have mostly been single-author driven and incorporated an individual event data model
1 Corresponding author: Andreas.Salzburger@cern.ch
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
c⃝ 2008 IOP Publishing Ltd
1

===== PAGE 3 =====
(EDM), a separate geometry description and speciﬁc algorithmic steering. When ATLAS moved
to the new C++ based object-oriented software framework ATHENA [1], which is an enhanced
version of the GAUDI [2] project that has been developed by the LHCb collaboration, these
well performing and optimised applications have indeed been ported to C++, while the main
block structure remained unchanged. In 2003, a dedicated reconstruction task force has realised
the potential danger of this software model, in particular in conjunction with the necessary
adaption of the ATLAS track reconstruction applications to a more realistic detector setup
(including misalignment, distortions and an excessive use of detector conditions data), which
is inevitable for the readiness of the reconstruction applications for ﬁrst data taking. These
extensions would have been necessary to be integrated individually in the several reconstruction
packages, since a common interface level has not been compliant with their software model.
During the last four years, a new track reconstruction — also referred to as New Tracking
(NEWT) — has been deployed that is based on a common tracking EDM [3] and a coherent
interface model that enhances a pure component software structure. A lot of well performing
algorithmic code from the former reconstruction programs has been integrated into NEWT,
but also new development has been facilitated. NEWT has been established as the default
ATLAS ID reconstruction and many components of NEWT are also used in MS applications,
and, furthermore, in combined reconstruction and physics analyses. In this sense, NEWT is not
yet another track reconstruction program for the ATLAS experiment, but rather a collective
term for the new philosophy deployed in the current track reconstruction algorithms, that are
in ATLAS — for the ﬁrst time — based on a common model for both tracking devices. NEWT
runs in similar sequences that access mostly common tools in the reconstruction of test beam
and commissioning data using cosmic rays, as well as in the oﬄine reconstruction and the seeded
third level trigger, the so-called Event Filter (EF). Figure 1 shows an event display for the same
simulatedt¯t event reconstructed with standard oﬄine track reconstruction to the left, and with
the region restricted EF version to the right.
-2 20 X (m) 
-2 20 Y (m) 
-2 20 X (m) 
-2 20 Y (m) 
ATLAS Atlantis offline Event Filter
Figure 1. A simulated t¯t event reconstructed with the oﬄine (left) and third level trigger
versions (right) of the ATLAS New Tracking. Latter is restricted to dedicated regions that are,
in general, provided by lower level trigger algorithms, but then runs an almost identical sequence
and guarantees high track reconstruction performance already in the event triggering.
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
2

===== PAGE 4 =====
NEWT spans currently over about 250 diﬀerent component packages and concentrates the
work of many authors.
1.1. The ATHENA framework, common services and the event data model
ATHENA is a data-centered software framework that follows a blackboard model design:
algorithms work as factories and read and write to a central transient event store (TES).
Between algorithms, there is, in general, no direct dependency rather than the shared event
data containers in the TES, which creates a pseudo-dataﬂow between the diﬀerent algorithms.
ATHENA provides interfaces for components of diﬀerent levels: services exist during the entire
program ﬂow (such as the magnetic ﬁeld service, or the TES itself),algorithms are executed once
per event, and tools carry most of the algorithmic workload. The factory model requires to have
a well deﬁned event data model, such that the diﬀerent components can understand the data
on the TES written by prior algorithms. The new common ATLAS tracking EDM establishes
a polymorphic structure of data classes, extending the main conceptual base classes needed for
track reconstruction: a track parameterisation, a hit representation and for the convenience
of the user a dedicated representation for physics analyses purposes. Many tools used in the
NEWT algorithmic ﬂow work directly on base class level, such as e.g. the extrapolation package
or the various available track ﬁtting algorithms. In the following sections we will present the
main concepts of NEWT and concentrate on the actual implementation in the ATLAS ID, an
exhaustive description, however, would go far beyond the scope of this document and will be
presented elsewhere [4].
Common tools and interfaces Many repeating tasks and operations during track reconstruction
can be performed without the need of any dedicated information about the underlying detector
technology. This is in particular given for purely mathematical operations or higher level tasks
that operate on base class level of the underlying tracking EDM. Track or vertex ﬁtting is,
in general, independent from the way the track information has been gathered as long as
the EDM provides enough — and mathematical consistent — information about the track
to perform the ﬁt. In the ATLAS New Tracking realm, these tasks have been identiﬁed and
concentrated in common tools, ordered in an intuitive package structure in a dedicated Tracking
repository. Many tracking-relevant operations like the track ﬁtting or the propagation algorithms
are deployed in this scope, several of them in diﬀerent actual realisations, but extending well
deﬁned common interfaces. This gives high ﬂexibility to the user, who is e.g. able to switch
between diﬀerent track ﬁtting techniques purely through the job conﬁguration interface, but
on the other hand stringently requires an intuitive and easy-to-use job conﬁguration system in
place2.
2. New T racking in the Inner Detector
The new track reconstruction of the ATLAS inner tracking device, the Inner Detector, has been
the ﬁrst to be completely transfered to the new component design and EDM. First tests have
been carried out in the context of test beam setups in 2004, while an ongoing validation of
NEWT in the ID takes place using Monte Carlo simulated events and cosmic ray runs for the
detector commissioning.
2.1. The ATLAS Inner Detector
The ATLAS ID consists of three diﬀerent tracking technologies:
2 In ATLAS, this is done through auto-generated python equivalents of each tool, algorithm or service
implementation, see [5].
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
3

===== PAGE 5 =====
• a silicon pixel detector — deployed as three barrel cylinders and three endcap disc structures
on each side — at innermost radii that provides the most accurate track particle localisation
of all measurement devices of the ATLAS detector and is mainly designed to achieve a high
vertex resolution,
• a silicon strip detector (SCT) that consists of four barrel layers and 18 endcap discs in total,
• and a transition radiation tracker (TRT) at outermost radii that provides many tracking hits
and a strong electron identiﬁcation potential by using the transition radiation probability.
All together, the ATLAS ID provides about 87 million readout channels, 80 millions in the
pixel detector, about 6 millions for the silicon strip sandwich modules, and about 400 000
channels for the TRT detector (one per each straw detector);
2.2. The ID reconstruction sequences
In modern track reconstruction there is no clear distinction between the classical modulespattern
ﬁnding and track ﬁtting. This is on the one hand due to the fact that many pattern ﬁnding
strategies (contrary to a classical histogram based approach) nowadays incorporate a two stage
pattern: a global pattern search, as well as a local pattern recognition where track ﬁtting is
already part of; on the other hand, many track ﬁtters such as the combinatorial extension of the
standard Kalman ﬁlter [6] or the deterministic annealing ﬁlter incorporate an intrinsic pattern
recognition during the ﬁtting process. Thus, the full chain of pattern recognition and track
ﬁtting will be in the following described as a single unit.
The ID New Tracking currently covers two sequences, the main inside-out track
reconstruction and a consecutive outside-in tracking. The primary pattern search concepts
for both sequences have been to a large extent adopted from the already existing ATLAS
ID reconstruction program XKALMAN [7], but integrated and accomplished by additional
components following the common NEWT approach. A third sequence, the second stage pattern
recognition for the ﬁnding of V0 vertices, kink objects due to bremsstrahlung and their associated
tracks has been also deployed using the common tracking tools and EDM, but is not particular
to the New Tracking approach.
2.3. The Inside-out sequence
The primary ID pattern recognition starts with seeding in the inner silicon tracker and performs
hit ﬁnding towards the outer border of the ID. The simpliﬁed sequence, showing only two levels
of deployed tools that are used at the various stages, is illustrated in Fig. 2 as an extended
UML sequence diagram. In a classical picture, many modules of this sequence can be divided
into global pattern recognition and consecutive local pattern recognition that only works on the
reduced output sample of the global search.
2.3.1. Global track seeding The ﬁrst step in the inside-out track reconstruction is the creation
of three-dimensional representations of the silicon detector measurements. Track seeds are built
from these objects and by applying a window search given through the seed direction, track
candidates are built. Hits from the detector elements that are within the road window are
collected and judged on a simpliﬁed Kalman ﬁltering and smoothing approach, these hits are
added to the track candidates or rejected, respectively.
2.4. Ambiguity solving
The collection of track candidates that are found in the crude silicon pattern recognition contains
usually many fake tracks or overlapping track segments with shared hits. A dedicated module
for resolving and cleaning this initial track collection is therefore inserted as the successive step
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
4

===== PAGE 6 =====
am : ApplicationMgr
StoreGateSvc
“Blackboard”
“Controller”
SpacePointFormation
PrepRawData
SpacePoint
execute()
retrieve(PrepRawDataCollection*)
record(SpacePointCollection*)
SiSPSeededTrackFinder
execute()
retrieve(SpacePointCollection*)
record(TrackCollection*)Track
PixelCluster, SCT_Cluster
PixelSpacePoints
SCT_SpacePoints
OverlapSpacePoints
SiSPSeededTracks
InDetAmbiguitySolver
execute()
retrieve(TrackCollection*)
record(TrackCollection*)Track
ResolvedTracks
TRT_ExtensionAlg
execute()
retrieve(TrackCollection*)
record(TrackTrackMap*)
retrieve(TrackCollection*)PrepRawData
TRT_DriftCircle
TrackTrackMap
ExtendedTrackMap
InDetExtentionsProcessor
execute()
retrieve(TrackTrackMap*)
record(TrackCollection*)Track
ExtendedTracks
SiSpacePointMakerTool
SiZvertexTool
SiSpacePointSeedMaker
SiTrackMakerTool
AmbiguityProcessor
TRT_ExtensionTool
InDetTrackFitter
InDetTrackScoringTool
InDetTrackFitter
PrdAssociationTool
InDetPropagator
InDetPatternUpdator
InDetROT_Creator
InDetExtrapolator
InDetUpdator
SiDetElementRoadMaker
Algorithm AlgTool (1) AlgTool (2)
InDetTrackScoringTool
TRT_DetElementRoadMaker
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
Description of non UML markers and relations: 
uses, delegates
common tool (optional) i
i interface definition exists
inteface definition and multiple implementations exist
Figure 2. The main sequence of modules and some of the tool classes used in the ATLAS New
Tracking for the Inner Detector illustrated as an extended UML sequence diagram. Following a
blackboard architecture structure, the transient event store (StoreGateSvc) acts as theblackboard
for reading and writing of event data, the ApplicationMgr as the controller of the system. Only
two levels of embedded tool classes are shown, where dashed lines indicate a uses relationship,
while the dotted line indicates possible sharing of tool instances.
in the algorithmic sequence. The ambiguity solving is hereby done by scoring the tracks in a
reward/penalty schema with respect to another to ﬁnally achieve the best track collection.
In general, each hit associated with the track leads to a better score value to favor fully
reconstructed tracks rather than small track segments. The measurements of diﬀerent sub-
detectors are, in general, weighted with diﬀerent score additions, preferring the precision
measurements (e.g. pixel clusters) and downgrading measurements from less precise detector
parts. Figure 3 illustrates some of the track characteristics to be resolved in the SCT barrel
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
5

===== PAGE 7 =====
detector. The ambiguity solving modules uses a scoring tool, but only refers to a tool interface,
such that diﬀerent scoring approaches can be in parallel be deployed and optimised. Currently,
a hit-pattern based scoring and a maximum likelihood approach are available.
sensor hit
module hit
ambiguous hit
hole
a
b
c
Figure 3. Simpliﬁed model of the
ambiguity solving process, illustrated
in the SCT barrel. Tracks a, b, and
c have been found through the seeded
track ﬁnding, but share several hits.
The χ2/ndof may not be appropriate
to distinguish a true from a fake track,
therefore dedicated track scoring that
is optimised for each sub-detector is
used. In the shown example, a module
hit representing measurements on both
sides of the SCT silicon detector
is scored relatively higher than two
single hits without associated backside
module. Hits in an overlap region as
for track b are particularly high scored,
while holes on track, i.e. an expected
hit that has not been found, lead to a
penalty in the track score.
2.4.1. TRT track extension The track (segment) extension from the silicon detectors into the
outer TRT is split into two modules, an extension algorithm searching for seeded candidates
and a second module that processes these extensions and evaluates them. Tracks found in the
silicon detector and, of course, only those that have survived the ﬁrst round of ambiguity solving
are used as an input to ﬁnd compatible sets of TRT measurements that are further processed as
candidate extension. Following the component pattern, the extension algorithm simply delegates
this task to a dedicated tool, represented through a pure abstract interface. The silicon-only
track must hereby not be modiﬁed, the association of the TRT hits is therefore a pure extension
and not done by a combination. Figure 4 shows the extensions of the silicon seeded tracks into
the TRT detector for a sample t¯t event.
Two concrete implementations of the track extension tool exist:
• The standard implementation follows a classical approach starting with road ﬁnding through
track extrapolation, and — using the hit coordinates expressed in r−φ in the barrel, and
r−z in the endcap region, respectively — performs a line ﬁt to estimate whether the hit is
compatible with the silicon track seed or not.
• a second implementation is available, that is based on the deterministic annealing ﬁlter
(DAF) [8] — an extension of the standard Kalman ﬁlter formalism — and is optimised
for very high hit occupancies. The DAF strategy also starts with the road building (and
uses hereby the same tool as the ﬁrst extension strategy), but follows a diﬀerent philosophy
for the hit ﬁnding and hit assignment; TRT measurements within the road are grouped
together on the same readout element (or on planes perpendicular to the extrapolated track,
depending of the initial conﬁguration) and represented as one input object to the track ﬁt.
The diﬀerent hits within the group are weighted by their likeliness to represent the true
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
6

===== PAGE 8 =====
hit, while the weights correspond mainly to the distance of the hit from the trajectory
prediction. The hit assignment is then performed in a ﬁnal annealing procedure.
The extension algorithm only provides candidates of TRT extensions for the seeded silicon
tracks, which are written in associative containers to the TES. The second module, the TRT
extension processor evaluates the given candidates then on basis of a track ﬁt and a subsequent
scoring mechanism that reuses the framework of the ﬁrst ambiguity solving step, see Sec. 2.4.
The resulting track collection marks the end of the inside-out chain of the ATLAS ID track
reconstruction.
2.5. The Outside-in sequence
The inside-out sequence of the ID New Tracking relies on a track seed to be found in the silicon
detector. Although being very eﬃcient, see Sec. 3, not all tracks can be found through an
inside-out procedure: ambiguous hits can shadow the track seed in the silicon and prevent the
score of the silicon seeded track to survive the ambiguity processor on the one hand, and on
the other hand, tracks coming from secondary decay vertices further inside the Inner Detector
volume (e.g. Ks decays) or from photon conversions may not have any silicon hits (or only an
insuﬃcient number) to comply with the inside-out sequence. Clearly, when no candidate track
in the silicon detector is found, the extension into the TRT is automatically lost. As a third
source for missing the TRT extension, substantial energy loss — mostly of electrons — at outer
radii of the silicon seeded track and not known to the road building may guide the extension
search into the wrong direction. A second, reverse sequence has therefore been deployed that
starts a global pattern recognition in the TRT. Track segments are identiﬁed using a standard
Hough transform mechanism, while a dedicated association tool prevents hits that have already
been assigned to tracks in the inside-out procedure to be used again (which saves a signiﬁcant
amount of CPU time).
-1000 -500 0 500 1000
1000
-500
0
500
1000
x [mm]
y [mm]
Segment
Extension
Figure 4. A sample t¯t event show-
ing the two possible TRT hit associa-
tions (only the barrel measurements):
the brighter colored hits show the ex-
tensions that follow the track found by
seeds in the silicon, while the darker
ones show TRT hits found through the
stand alone track segment search. The
TRT segments are then used for back
tracking into the silicon, aimed at op-
timising the overall reconstruction eﬃ-
ciency.
The TRT segments are then followed back into the silicon detector ( backtracking), which
allows to ﬁnd small track segments in the silicon part that have been missed in the initial
inside-out stage.
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
7

===== PAGE 9 =====
3. Performance
A complete overview of the ATLAS track reconstruction performance would go far beyond the
scope of this document and will be presented elsewhere. The given examples that are presented in
the following are thus more exemplary and aimed at showing the readiness of the reconstruction
software on the one hand, and the power of the component model on the other hand 3. While
Fig. 5 presents some results based on Monte Carlo simulated single track events, Sec. 3.1 focusses
on the special aspect of electron track reconstruction and puts it into context with the component
software module.
|η|
00 .5 11 .5 22 .5
) [mm]0(dσ
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
pT = 1 GeV
pT = 100 GeV
ATLAS PRELIMINARY
00 .5 11 .5 22 .5
Efficiency
0.82
0.84
0.86
0.88
0.9
0.92
0.94
0.96
0.98
1
muons with pT = 5 GeV 
electrons with pT = 5 GeV 
|η|
ATLAS PRELIMINARY
Figure 5. Single track reconstruction performance ﬁgures for the new track reconstruction in
the Inner Detector; the left plot shows the transverse impact parameter resolution σ(d0) for
muon tracks of low and high momentum versus the pseudorapidity, reaching a resolution of less
than 10µm when multiple scattering can be neglected. The right plot shows the reconstruction
eﬃciencies for muon and electron tracks with a transverse momentum of 5 GeV. The performance
ﬁgures are shown for the inside-out sequence.
3.1. Electron ﬁtting
A striking example for the power of the component software model is the ﬁt of electron tracks.
Electrons lose, in general, a signiﬁcant amount of energy due to bremsstrahlung and thus the
Gaussian assumption of the noise added to the track ﬁt due to material interactions, which is
inert to most track ﬁtters, is far from being optimal. Dedicated ﬁtting techniques, such as the
Gaussian Sum Filter (GSF) [9] or a dynamic noise adjustment schema have been developed to
enhance a better performance, either through a modiﬁed error description, or through a multi-
component model as for the GSF. In ATLAS, both ﬁtting types expand the common abstract
ﬁtter interface, such that each of the given track ﬁtters can be exchanged at every stage of
the event reconstruction, simply through a modiﬁed job conﬁguration. Figure 6 shows as an
example the improvement of the Z mass distribution for Z→ e+e−, when the electron tracks
are (re-)ﬁtted the GSF.
3.2. Timing Performance
The minimisation of the CPU time that is consumed by the reconstruction algorithm is a very
important task in modern high energy physics experiments. Since large event samples have to
3 A real evaluation of the track reconstruction performance has to be carried out anyway within the commissioning
runs and ﬁrst data runs. It is thus in the interest of the authors to explicitly indicate that these performance
ﬁgures are obtained under the assumption of optimal conditions (i.e. perfect alignment of the detector, well known
material budget, etc.), which may certainly not apply at the startup phase of the experiment in 2008.
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
8

===== PAGE 10 =====
 [GeV]
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Events
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
GSF
KF (standard)
MZ
ATLAS
PRELIMINARY
Figure 6. Improvement of the Z
mass distribution for Z → e+e−, when
the electron tracks are (re-)ﬁtted with
the Gaussian sum ﬁlter instead of the
standard ATLAS Kalman ﬁlter. In the
standard Kalman ﬁlter, energy loss is
applied only as mean ionisation loss and
even approximated as being Gaussian
distributed.
be reconstructed repeatedly, achieving a low execution time of the reconstruction applications is
of particular interest, not only to ﬁt with the computing budget of the experiments or associated
institutes, but also to achieve a workable environment for clients and users of the reconstruction
software. For the ID, an event reconstruction frequency of about 1 Hz has been targeted for
relevant physics events, a number that could be achieved with the ID NEWT reconstruction.
Table 1 gives an overview of the main contributions to the execution time per event for the ID
NEWT reconstruction, based on the measurement of 100 t¯t events on an Intel R⃝ Xeon R⃝ CPU
5150 (2.66 GHz).
T able 1. Timing contributions of the main components executed in the NEWT ID sequence.
Module approx. time/event [ms]
silicon space point seeded track ﬁnding 370
ambiguity solving on silicon track candidates 240
extension into the TRT 270
TRT segment ﬁnding 340
4. Conclusion
A new modular track reconstruction software has been established for the ATLAS experiment
that includes a common EDM, an underlying reconstruction geometry and is based on well-
deﬁned interfaces in a component pattern design. A ﬁrst complete algorithm chain has been
deployed in the Inner Detector and is competitive in terms of performance and CPU time
consumption to prior ATLAS reconstruction programs, while providing an open and interactive
model for future modiﬁcations and adoptions. NEWT builds in addition the backbone of the
ATLAS Inner Detector third level trigger by providing the seeded pattern recognition and ﬁtting
tools used in the trigger slices.
Moreover, all track reconstruction algorithms now provide the EDM objects as the output
data, allowing common validation and analysis applications to work independently on the
reconstruction chain used for track ﬁnding and ﬁtting.
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
9

===== PAGE 11 =====
4.1. Conclusion and Outlook
We have presented a new track reconstruction chain that became the default track reconstruction
strategy for the ATLAS Inner Detector. It is characterised by a ﬂexible component software
model that allows future extension and necessary adaptions during the long lifetime of the
ATLAS experiment.
The full migration of the previous track reconstruction programs into the New Tracking
schema is an ongoing eﬀort of the ATLAS oﬄine software project. NEWT has proven to allow
both, the easy introduction of newly developed concepts as modules to the common tracking
eﬀort and the re-integration of the existing well-performing algorithms from past reconstruction
packages. Latter is deliberately foreseen without wiping the identity (in both concepts and
performance) of these well-tested algorithms.
A second big ﬁeld of further development is the realisation of combined reconstruction and
recovery and detection strategies of bremsstrahlung radiation using the ATLAS New Tracking
tools. Clearly many parts of NEWT that have been described in this document can become
parts of new algorithm chains that concentrate on higher stage pattern recognition, particle
identiﬁcation and event topology classiﬁcations.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank the various contributors to both ﬁelds the conceptual design
as well as the software implementation of the ATLAS New Tracking.
References
[1] Atlas Collaboration, ATLAS Computing Technical Design Report, ATLAS TDR, CERN-LHCC-2005-022,
2005.
[2] G. Barrand et al., GAUDI - A software architecture and framework for building LHCb data processing
applications, Proc. of CHEP 2000, 2000.
[3] F. Akesson et al., The ATLAS Tracking Event Data Model, ATLAS Public Note, ATL-SOFT-PUB-2006-004,
2006.
[4] A. Salzburger (Editor) et al., Concepts, Design and Implementation of the ATLAS New Tracking (NEWT)
ATL-PUB-SOFT-2007-007, ATLAS Public Note, 2007.
[5] W. Lavrijsen et al., Physics-level Job Conﬁguration , Proceedings of CHEP 2006, Mumbai, India, 2006.
[6] R. Fr¨ uhwirth et al.,Application of Kalman Filtering to Track and Vertex Fitting , Nucl. Inst. Meth., A 262,
1987
[7] I. Gavrilenko, Description of Global Pattern Recognition Program (XKALMAN), ATLAS Internal Note, ATL-
INDET-97-165, 1997.
[8] A. Strandlie et al, Adaptive multitrack ﬁtting, Comp. Phys. Comm 133, 2000.
[9] R. Fr¨ uhwirth and A. Strandlie,Track ﬁnding and ﬁtting with the Gaussian-sum ﬁlter , Proceedings of CHEP
1998, Chicago, Illinois, USA, 1998.
International Conference on Computing in High Energy and Nuclear Physics (CHEP’07) IOP Publishing
Journal of Physics: Conference Series 119 (2008) 032014 doi:10.1088/1742-6596/119/3/032014
10