

===== PAGE 1 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79:639
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-7140-6
Regular Article - Experimental Physics
Electron reconstruction and identiﬁcation in the ATLAS
experiment using the 2015 and 2016 LHC proton–proton collision
data at √ s = 13 TeV
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
CERN, 1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland
Received: 14 February 2019 / Accepted: 17 July 2019 / Published online: 3 August 2019
© CERN for the beneﬁt of the ATLAS collaboration 2019
Abstract Algorithms used for the reconstruction and iden-
tiﬁcation of electrons in the central region of the ATLAS
detector at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) are presented
in this paper; these algorithms are used in ATLAS physics
analyses that involve electrons in the ﬁnal state and which
are based on the 2015 and 2016 proton–proton collision data
produced by the LHC at√
s = 13 TeV. The performance of the
electron reconstruction, identiﬁcation, isolation, and charge
identiﬁcation algorithms is evaluated in data and in simu-
lated samples using electrons from Z → ee and J/ψ → ee
decays. Typical examples of combinations of electron recon-
struction, identiﬁcation, and isolation operating points used
in ATLAS physics analyses are shown.
Contents
1 Introduction ..................... 1
2 The ATLAS detector ................. 2
3 Datasets and simulated-event samples ........ 3
4 Electron-efﬁciency measurements .......... 3
4.1 Measurements using Z → ee events ...... 5
4.2 Measurements using J/ψ → ee events ..... 5
5 Electron reconstruction ............... 6
5.1 Seed-cluster reconstruction ........... 6
5.2 Track reconstruction ............... 7
5.3 Electron-candidate reconstruction ........ 8
6 Electron identiﬁcation ................ 1 0
6.1 The likelihood identiﬁcation .......... 1 1
6.2 The pdfs for the LH-identiﬁcation ....... 1 1
6.3 LH-identiﬁcation operating points and their cor-
responding efﬁciencies ............. 1 3
7 Electron isolation .................. 1 6
7.1 Calorimeter-based isolation ........... 1 7
7.2 Track-based isolation .............. 1 8
⋆ e-mail: atlas.publications@cern.ch
7.3 Optimisation of isolation criteria and resulting
efﬁciency measurements ............ 1 9
8 Electron-charge identiﬁcation ............ 1 9
8.1 Reconstruction of electric charge ........ 1 9
8.2 Suppression of charge misidentiﬁcation .... 2 2
8.3 Measurement of the probability of charge misiden-
tiﬁcation ..................... 2 2
9 Usage of electron selections in physics measurements 23
10 Conclusions ..................... 2 5
References ........................ 2 6
1 Introduction
Stable particles that interact primarily via the electromag-
netic interaction, such as electrons, muons, and photons, are
found in many ﬁnal states of proton–proton (pp) collisions at
the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) located at the CERN Labo-
ratory. These particles are essential ingredients of the ATLAS
experiment’s Standard Model and Higgs-boson physics pro-
gramme as well as in searches for physics beyond the Stan-
dard Model. Hence, the ability to effectively reconstruct elec-
trons
1 originating from the prompt decay of particles such as
the Z boson, to identify them as such with high efﬁciency,
and to isolate them from misidentiﬁed hadrons, electrons
from photon conversions, and non-isolated electrons origi-
nating from heavy-ﬂavour decays are all essential steps to a
successful scientiﬁc programme.
The ATLAS Collaboration has presented electron-perfor-
mance results in several publications since the start of the
high-energy data-taking in 2010 [1–3]. The gradual increase
in peak luminosity and the number of overlapping colli-
sions (pile-up) in ATLAS has necessitated an evolution of
the electron reconstruction and identiﬁcation techniques. In
addition, the LHC shutdown period of 2013–2014 brought a
1 Throughout this paper, the term “electron” usually indicates both elec-
trons and positrons.
123

===== PAGE 2 =====
639 Page 2 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
new charged-particle detection layer to the centre of ATLAS
and a restructuring of the trigger system, both of which
impact physics analyses with electrons in the ﬁnal state.
These changes require a new benchmarking of electron-
performance parameters. The electron efﬁciency measure-
ments presented in this paper are from the data recorded dur-
ing the 2015–2016 LHC pp collision run at centre-of-mass
energy √
s = 13 TeV. During the period relevant to this
paper, the LHC circulated 6.5 TeVproton beams with a 25 ns
bunch spacing. The peak delivered instantaneous luminosity
was L = 1.37 × 10
34 cm−2 s−1 and the mean number of pp
interactions per bunch crossing (hard scattering and pile-up
events) was ⟨μ⟩= 23.5. The total integrated luminosity [4]
used for most of the measurements presented in this paper
is 37.1 fb
−1. Another important goal of this paper is to doc-
ument the methods used by the ATLAS experiment at the
start of Run 2 of the LHC (2015 and beyond) to reconstruct,
identify, and isolate prompt-electron candidates with high
efﬁciency, as well as to suppress electron-charge misidenti-
ﬁcation. The methods presented here would be of value to
other experiments with similar experimental conditions of
ﬁne granularity detection devices but also substantial inac-
tive material in front of the active detector, or with signiﬁcant
activity from pile-up events.
The structure of the paper is described in the following,
highlighting additions and new developments with respect
to Ref. [3]. Section 2 provides a brief summary of the main
components of the detector germane to this paper, with spe-
cial emphasis on the changes since the 2010-2012 data-taking
period. Section 3 itemises the datasets and simulated-event
samples used in this paper. Given that the method for cal-
culating efﬁciencies is common to all measurements, it is
described in Sect. 4, before the individual measurements are
presented. The algorithms and resulting measurements for
electron reconstruction efﬁciencies are described in Sect. 5,
including a detailed discussion of the Gaussian Sum Fil-
ter algorithm. Electron identiﬁcation and the corresponding
measurement of efﬁciencies are described in Sect. 6.N e w
developments here include the optimisation based on simu-
lated events and the treatment of electrons with high trans-
verse momentum. The algorithms used to identify isolated
electron candidates and the resulting measured benchmark
efﬁciencies are published for the ﬁrst time; these are pre-
sented in Sect. 7. This paper also presents detailed discus-
sion of studies of the probability to mismeasure the charge of
an electron; these are presented in Sect. 8. This section also
includes a discussion of the sources of charge misidentiﬁca-
tion and a new Boosted Decision Tree algorithm that reduces
the rate of charge-misidentiﬁed electrons signiﬁcantly. A few
examples of combined reconstruction, identiﬁcation, and iso-
lation efﬁciencies for typical working points used in ATLAS
physics analyses but illustrated with a common Z → ee
sample are shown in Sect. 9. The summary of the work is
given in Sect. 10.
2 The ATLAS detector
The ATLAS detector [5] is designed to observe particles pro-
duced in the high-energy pp and heavy-ion LHC collisions.
It is composed of an inner detector, used for charged-particle
tracking, immersed in a 2 T axial magnetic ﬁeld produced
by a thin superconducting solenoid; electromagnetic (EM)
and hadronic calorimeters outside the solenoid; and a muon
spectrometer. A two-level triggering system reduces the total
data-taking rate to approximately 1 kHz. The second level,
the high-level trigger (HLT), employs selection algorithms
using full-granularity detector information; likelihood-based
electron identiﬁcation and its HLT variant are described in
Sect. 6.
The inner detector provides precise reconstruction of
tracks within a pseudorapidity range
2 |η| ≲ 2.5. The inner-
most part of the inner detector consists of a high-granularity
silicon pixel detector and includes the insertable B-layer [6,
7], a new tracking layer closest to the beamline designed
to improve impact parameter resolution, which is impor-
tant primarily for heavy-ﬂavour identiﬁcation. The silicon
pixel detector provides typically four measurement points for
charged particles originating in the beam-interaction region.
A semiconductor tracker (SCT) consisting of modules with
two layers of silicon microstrip sensors surrounds the pixel
detector and provides typically eight hits per track at inter-
mediate radii. The outermost region of the inner detector is
covered by a transition radiation tracker (TRT) consisting
of straw drift tubes ﬁlled with a xenon-based gas mixture,
interleaved with polypropylene/polyethylene radiators. The
TRT offers electron identiﬁcation capability via the detec-
tion of transition-radiation photons generated by the radia-
tors for highly relativistic particles. Some of the TRT modules
instead contain an argon-based gas mixture, as mitigation for
gas leaks that cannot be repaired without an invasive open-
ing of the inner detector. The presence of this gas mixture
is taken into account in the simulation. ATLAS has devel-
oped a TRT particle-identiﬁcation algorithm that partially
mitigates the loss in identiﬁcation power caused by the use
of this argon-based gas mixture. For charged particles with
transverse momentum p
T > 0.5 GeV within its pseudora-
2 ATLAS uses a right-handed coordinate system with its origin at the
nominal interaction point (IP) in the centre of the detector and the z-
axis along the beam pipe. The x-axis points from the IP to the centre of
the LHC ring, and the y-axis points upwards. Cylindrical coordinates
(r,φ) are used in the transverse plane, φ being the azimuthal angle
around the z-axis. The pseudorapidity is deﬁned in terms of the polar
angle θas η=− ln tan(θ/2). Angular distance is measured in units of
/Delta1R ≡
√
(/Delta1η)2 + (/Delta1φ)2.
123

===== PAGE 3 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 3 of 40 639
pidity coverage (|η| ≲ 2), the TRT provides typically 35 hits
per track.
The ATLAS calorimeter system has both electromag-
netic and hadronic components and covers the pseudorapid-
ity range |η| < 4.9, with ﬁner granularity over the region
matching the inner detector. The central EM calorimeters
are of an accordion-geometry design made from lead/liquid-
argon (LAr) detectors, providing a full φ coverage. These
detectors are divided into two half-barrels (−1.475 <η< 0
and 0 <η< 1.475) and two endcap components (1.375 <
|η| < 3.2), with a transition region between the barrel and
the endcap (1.37 < |η| < 1.52) which contains a relatively
large amount of inactive material. Over the region devoted
to precision measurements (|η| < 2.47, excluding the tran-
sition regions), the EM calorimeter is segmented into longi-
tudinal (depth) compartments called the ﬁrst (also known as
strips), second, and third layers. The ﬁrst layer consists of
strips ﬁnely segmented in η, offering excellent discrimina-
tion between photons and π
0 → γγ decays. At electron or
photon energies relevant to this paper, most of the energy is
collected in the second layer, which has a lateral granular-
ity of 0 .025 × 0.025 in (η, φ)space, while the third layer
provides measurements of energy deposited in the tails of
the shower. The central EM calorimeter is complemented by
two presampler detectors in the region|η| < 1.52 (barrel) and
1.5 < |η| < 1.8 (endcaps), made of a thin LAr layer, provid-
ing a sampling for particles that start showering in front of
the EM calorimeters. Hadronic calorimetry is provided by the
steel/scintillating-tile calorimeter, segmented into three bar-
rel structures within|η| < 1.7, and two copper/LAr hadronic
endcap calorimeters. They surround the EM calorimeters
and provide additional discrimination through further energy
measurements of possible EM shower tails as well as rejec-
tion of events with activity of hadronic origin.
3 Datasets and simulated-event samples
All data collected by the ATLAS detector undergo careful
scrutiny to ensure the quality of the recorded information;
data used for the efﬁciency measurements are ﬁltered by
requiring that all detector subsystems needed in the analy-
sis (calorimeters and tracking detectors) are operating nom-
inally. After all data-quality requirements (94% efﬁcient),
37.1 fb
−1 of pp collision data from the 2015–2016 dataset
are available for analysis. Some results in this paper are based
on the 2016 dataset only, and contain approximately 10% less
data.
Samples of simulated Z → ee and J/ψ → ee decays
as well as single-electron samples are used to benchmark
the expected electron efﬁciencies and to deﬁne the electron-
identiﬁcation criteria. The Z → ee Monte Carlo (MC) sam-
ples were generated with the Powheg-Box v2 MC pro-
gram [8–12] interfaced to the Pythia v.8.186 [13] parton
shower model. The CT10 parton distribution function (PDF)
set [ 14] was used in the event generation with the matrix
element, and the AZNLO [ 15] set of generator-parameter
values (tune) with the CTEQ6L1 [16] PDF set were used for
the modelling of non-perturbative effects. The J/ψ → ee
samples were generated with Pythia v.8.186; the A14 set of
tuned parameters [17] was used together with the CTEQ6L1
PDF set for event generation and the parton shower. The
simulated single-electron samples were produced with a ﬂat
distribution in η as well as in p
T in the region 3 .5G e Vt o
100 GeV, followed by a linear ramp down to 300 GeV, and
then a ﬂat distribution again to 3 TeV. For studies of electrons
in simulated event samples, the reconstructed-electron track
is required to have hits in the inner detector which originate
from the true electron during simulation.
Backgrounds that may mimic the signature of prompt
electrons were simulated with two-to-two processes in the
Pythia v.8.186 event generator using the A14 set of tuned
parameters and the NNPDF2.3LO PDF set [18]. These pro-
cesses include multijet production, qg → qγ, q ¯q → gγ,
W - and Z-boson production (as well as other electroweak
processes), and top-quark production. A ﬁlter was applied to
the simulation to enrich the ﬁnal sample in electron back-
grounds. This ﬁlter retains events in which particles pro-
duced in the hard scatter (excluding muons and neutrinos)
have a summed energy that exceeds 17 GeV in an area of
/Delta1η× /Delta1φ= 0.1 × 0.1, which mimics the highly localised
energy deposits that are characteristic of electrons. When
using this background sample, prompt electrons from W -
and Z-boson decays are excluded using generator-level sim-
ulation information.
Multiple overlaid pp collisions were simulated with
the soft QCD processes of Pythia v.8.186 using the
MSTW2008LO PDF [ 19]. The Monte Carlo events were
reweighted so that the ⟨μ⟩ distribution matches the one
observed in the data. All samples were processed with the
Geant4-based simulation [20,21] of the ATLAS detector.
4 Electron-efﬁciency measurements
Electrons isolated from other particles are important ingre-
dients in Standard Model measurements and in searches for
physics beyond the Standard Model. However, the experi-
mentally determined electron spectra must be corrected for
the selection efﬁciencies, such as those related to the trig-
ger, as well as particle isolation, identiﬁcation, and recon-
struction, before absolute measurements can be made. These
efﬁciencies may be estimated directly from data using tag-
and-probe methods. These methods select, from known res-
onances such as Z → ee or J/ψ → ee, unbiased samples of
electrons (probes) by using strict selection requirements on
123

===== PAGE 4 =====
639 Page 4 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
the second object (tags) produced from the particle’s decay.
The events are selected on the basis of the electron–positron
invariant mass. The efﬁciency of a given requirement can
then be determined by applying it to the probe sample after
accounting for residual background contamination.
The total efﬁciency ϵ
total may be factorised as a product
of different efﬁciency terms:
ϵtotal = ϵEMclus × ϵreco × ϵid × ϵiso × ϵtrig
=
( Ncluster
Nall
)
×
( Nreco
Ncluster
)
×
( Nid
Nreco
)
×
( Niso
Nid
)
×
( Ntrig
Niso
)
. (1)
The efﬁciency to reconstruct in the electromagnetic calorime-
ter EM-cluster candidates (localised energy deposits) associ-
ated with all produced electrons,ϵ
EMclus, is given by the num-
ber of reconstructed EM calorimeter clustersNcluster divided
by the number of produced electrons Nall. This efﬁciency is
evaluated entirely from simulation, where the reconstructed
cluster is associated to a genuine electron produced at genera-
tor level. The reconstruction efﬁciency,ϵreco, is given by the
number of reconstructed electron candidates Nreco divided
by the number of EM-cluster candidatesNcluster. This recon-
struction efﬁciency, as well as the efﬁciency to reconstruct
electromagnetic clusters, is described in Sect.5. The identiﬁ-
cation efﬁciency,ϵid, is given by the number of identiﬁed and
reconstructed electron candidates Nid divided by Nreco, and
is described in Sect. 6. The isolation efﬁciency is calculated
as the number of identiﬁed electron candidates satisfying
the isolation, identiﬁcation, and reconstruction requirements
Niso divided by Nid, and is explained in Sect. 7. Finally, the
trigger efﬁciency is calculated as the number of triggered (and
isolated, identiﬁed, reconstructed) electron candidates N
trig
divided by Niso (see for example Ref. [22]; trigger efﬁciency
is not discussed further in this paper).
Isolated electrons selected for physics analyses are subject
to large backgrounds from misidentiﬁed hadrons, electrons
from photon conversions, and non-isolated electrons origi-
nating from heavy-ﬂavour decays. The biggest challenge in
the efﬁciency measurements presented in this paper is the
estimation of probes that originate from background rather
than signal processes. This background is largest for the sam-
ple of cluster probes, but the fraction of such events is reduced
with each efﬁciency step, from left to right, as given in Eq. (1).
The accuracy with which the detector simulation models
the observed electron efﬁciency plays an important role when
using simulation to predict physics processes, for exam-
ple the signal or background of a measurement. In order
to achieve reliable results, the simulated events need to be
corrected to reproduce as closely as possible the efﬁciencies
measured in data. This is achieved by applying a multiplica-
tive correction factor to the event weight in simulation. This
correction factor is deﬁned as the ratio of the efﬁciency mea-
sured in data to that determined from Monte Carlo events.
These correction weights are normally close to unity; devi-
ations from unity usually arise from mismodelling in the
simulation of tracking properties or shower shapes in the
calorimeters.
Systematic uncertainties in the correction factors are eval-
uated by varying the requirements on the selection of both
the tag and the probe electron candidates as well as vary-
ing the details of the background-subtraction method. The
central value of the measurement is extracted by averaging
the measurement results over all variations. The statistical
uncertainty in a single variation of the measurement is cal-
culated following the approach in Ref. [ 23], i.e. assuming
a binomial distribution. If the evaluation of the number of
events (before or after the selection under investigation) is
the result of a background subtraction, the corresponding
statistical uncertainties are also included in the overall sta-
tistical uncertainty, rather than in the systematic uncertainty.
The systematic uncertainty in the averaged result is obtained
from the root-mean-square (RMS) of the individual results,
and in the case of non-Gaussian behaviour, it is inﬂated to
cover 68% of the variations.
The tag-and-probe measurements are based on samples
of Z → ee and J/ψ → ee events. Whereas the Z → ee
sample is used to extract all terms in Eq. (1), the J/ψ → ee
sample is only used to extract the identiﬁcation efﬁciencyϵ
id
since the signiﬁcant background as well as the difﬁculties in
designing a trigger for this process prevent its use in deter-
mining the reconstruction efﬁciency. The combination of the
two samples allows identiﬁcation efﬁciency measurements
over a signiﬁcant transverse energy E
T range of 4.5 GeV
to 20 GeV for the J/ψ → ee sample, and above 15 GeV
(4.5 GeV for the isolation efﬁciency measurement) for the
Z → ee sample, while still providing overlapping measure-
ments between the samples in theET range 15–20 GeV where
the correction factors of the two results are combined using
a χ2 minimisation [2,24]. Combining the correction factors
instead of the individual measured and simulated efﬁcien-
cies reduces the dependence on kinematic differences of the
physics processes as they cancel out in the ratio.
Due to the number of events available in the sample, the
Z → ee tag-and-probe measurements provide limited infor-
mation about electron efﬁciencies beyond approximately
electron E
T = 150 GeV. The following procedure is used
to assign correction factors for candidate electrons with high
ET:
• reconstruction: the same η-dependent correction factors
are used for all ET > 80 GeV,
• identiﬁcation: correction factors determined up to ET =
250 GeV are applicable beyond,
123

===== PAGE 5 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 5 of 40 639
• isolation: correction factors of unity are used for ET >
150 GeV.
The following subsections give a brief overview of the
methods used to extract efﬁciencies in the data. Efﬁciency
extraction using simulated events is performed in a very
similar fashion, except that no background subtraction is per-
formed. More detailed descriptions may be found in Ref. [3].
4.1 Measurements using Z → ee events
Z → ee events with two electron candidates in the cen-
tral region of the detector, |η| < 2.47, were collected using
two triggers designed to identify at least one electron in the
event. One trigger has a minimum E
T threshold of 24 GeV
(which was changed to 26 GeV during 2016 data-taking), and
requires Tight trigger identiﬁcation (see Sect. 6) and track
isolation (see Sect.7), while the other trigger has a minimum
E
T threshold of 60 GeV and Medium trigger identiﬁcation.
The tag electron is required to have ET > 27 GeV and to
lie outside of the calorimeter transition region, 1.37 < |η| <
1.52. It must be associated with the object that ﬁred the trig-
ger, and must also pass Tight-identiﬁcation (see Sect.6) and
isolation requirements. If both electrons pass the tag require-
ments, the event will provide two probes. The invariant-
mass distribution constructed from the tag electron and the
cluster probe is used to discriminate prompt electrons from
background. The signal efﬁciency is extracted in a window
of ± 15 GeV around the Z-boson mass peak at 91.2 GeV.
Approximately 35 million electron-candidate probes from
Z → ee data events are available for analysis.
The probe electrons in the denominator of the recon-
struction-efﬁciency measurement (see Eq. ( 1)) are electro-
magnetic clusters both with and without associated tracks,
while those in the numerator consist of clusters with matched
tracks, i.e. reconstructed electrons (see Sect.5). These tracks
are required to have at least seven hits in the silicon detec-
tors (i.e. both pixel and SCT) and at least one hit in the pixel
detector. The background for electron candidates without a
matched track is estimated by ﬁtting a polynomial to the side-
band regions of the invariant-mass distribution of the can-
didate electron pairs, after subtracting the remaining signal
contamination using simulation. The background for elec-
tron candidates with a matched track is estimated by con-
structing a background template by inverting identiﬁcation
or isolation criteria for the probe electron candidate and nor-
malising it to the invariant-mass sideband regions, after sub-
traction of the signal events in both the template and the
sidebands.
The probe electrons used in the denominator of the iden-
tiﬁcation efﬁciency measurement are the same as those used
in the numerator of the reconstruction efﬁciency measure-
ment, with an additional opposite-charge requirement on
the tag–probe pair; this method assumes that the charge
of the candidate is correctly identiﬁed. The numerator of
the identiﬁcation measurement consists of probes satisfying
the identiﬁcation criteria under evaluation. Two methods are
used in the identiﬁcation measurements to estimate the non-
prompt background [ 2,3]; they are treated as variations of
the same measurement: the Zmass method uses the invari-
ant mass of the tag–probe pair while the Ziso method uses
the isolation distribution of probes in the signal mass win-
dow around the Z-boson peak. In both cases, and as dis-
cussed for the reconstruction-efﬁciency measurement, back-
ground templates are formed and normalised to the sideband
regions, after subtraction of the signal events. The contam-
ination from charge-misidentiﬁed candidates is negligible
in this sample. In the Zmass method, the numerator of the
identiﬁcation efﬁciency uses same-charge events to obtain
a normalisation factor for the template in opposite-charge
events, in order to reduce the contamination from signal
events.
The isolation-efﬁciency measurements are performed
using the Zmass method, as described above. The denomina-
tor in the efﬁciency ratio is the number of identiﬁed electron
candidates, while the numerator consists of candidates that
also satisfy the isolation criteria under evaluation.
In all cases, systematic uncertainties in the data-MC cor-
rection factors are evaluated from the background-subtraction
method as well as variations of the quality of the probed elec-
trons via changes in the window around the Z-boson mass
peak. They are also evaluated by varying the identiﬁcation
and isolation requirements on the tag, the sideband regions
used in the ﬁts, and the template deﬁnitions.
4.2 Measurements using J/ψ → ee events
J/ψ → ee events with at least two electron candidates with
ET > 4.5 GeV and |η| < 2.47 were collected with dedi-
cated dielectron triggers with electronET thresholds ranging
from 4 to 14 GeV. Each of these triggers requires Tight trig-
ger identiﬁcation and ET above a certain threshold for one
trigger object, while only demanding the electromagnetic
cluster ET to be higher than some other (lower) threshold
for the second object. The J/ψ → ee selection consists of
one electron candidate passing a Tight-identiﬁcation selec-
tion (see Sect. 6) and one reconstructed-electron candidate
(see Sect. 5). The tag electron is required to be outside the
calorimeter transition region 1 .37 < |η| < 1.52 and to be
associated with the Tight trigger object. The probe electron
must be matched to the second trigger object. Due to the
nature of the sample (a mixture of prompt and non-prompt
decays) as well as signiﬁcant background, isolation require-
ments are applied on both the tag and the probe electrons,
although for the latter the requirement is very loose so as
to not bias the identiﬁcation-efﬁciency measurement. Fur-
123

===== PAGE 6 =====
639 Page 6 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
thermore, the tag and the probe electron candidates must be
separated from each other in η–φ space by /Delta1R > 0.15.
If both electrons pass the tag requirements, the event will
provide two probes. Approximately 80 thousand electron-
candidate probes from J/ψ → ee data events are available
for analysis.
The invariant-mass distribution of the two electron can-
didates in the range 1.8–4.6 GeV is ﬁt with functions to
extract three contributions: J/ψ events, ψ( 2S) events, and
the background from hadronic jets, heavy ﬂavour, and elec-
trons from conversions. The J/ψ and ψ( 2S) contributions
are each modelled with a Crystal Ball function convolved
with a Gaussian function, and the background is estimated
using same-charge events and ﬁt with a second-order Cheby-
shev polynomial.
J/ψ → ee events come from a mixture of prompt and
non-prompt J/ψ production, with relative fractions depend-
ing both on the triggers used to collect the data and on the
E
T of the probe electrons. Prompt J/ψ mesons are pro-
duced directly in pp collisions and in radiative decays of
directly produced heavier charmonium states. Non-prompt
J/ψ production occurs when the J/ψ is produced in the
decay of a b-hadron. Only the prompt production yields
isolated electrons, which are expected to have efﬁcien-
cies similar to those of electrons from physics processes
of interest such as H → ZZ
∗ → 4ℓ. Given the dif-
ﬁculties associated with the fact that electrons from non-
prompt decays are often surrounded by hadronic activity,
two methods have been developed to measure the efﬁciency
for isolated electrons at low E
T, both exploiting the pseudo-
proper time variable 3 t0.I nt h e cut method, a require-
ment is imposed on the pseudo-proper time, so that the
prompt component is enhanced, thereby limiting the non-
prompt contribution. The residual non-prompt fraction is
estimated using simulated samples and ATLAS measure-
ments of J/ψ → μμ [26]. In the ﬁt method, a ﬁt to the
pseudo-proper time distribution is used to extract the prompt
fraction, after subtracting the background using the pseudo-
proper time distribution in sideband regions around theJ/ψ
peak.
The systematic uncertainties in the data-to-simulation
correction factors of both methods are estimated by vary-
ing the isolation criteria for the tag and the probe elec-
tron candidates, the ﬁt models for the signal and back-
ground, the signal invariant-mass range, the pseudo-proper
time requirement in the cut method, and the ﬁt range in the
ﬁt method.
3 The pseudo-proper time is deﬁned as t0 = Lxy · m J/ψ
PDG/ p J/ψ
T ,w h e r e
Lxy is the displacement of the J/ψ vertex from the primary vertex
projected onto the ﬂight direction of the J/ψ in the transverse plane,
m J/ψ
PDG is the nominal J/ψ mass [25]a n dp J/ψ
T is the J/ψ -reconstructed
transverse momentum.
5 Electron reconstruction
An electron can lose a signiﬁcant amount of its energy due
to bremsstrahlung when interacting with the material it tra-
verses. The radiated photon may convert into an electron–
positron pair which itself can interact with the detector mate-
rial. These positrons, electrons, and photons are usually emit-
ted in a very collimated fashion and are normally recon-
structed as part of the same electromagnetic cluster. These
interactions can occur inside the inner-detector volume or
even in the beam pipe, generating multiple tracks in the inner
detector, or can instead occur downstream of the inner detec-
tor, only impacting the shower in the calorimeter. As a result,
it is possible to produce and match multiple tracks to the
same electromagnetic cluster, all originating from the same
primary electron.
The reconstruction of electron candidates within the kine-
matic region encompassed by the high-granularity electro-
magnetic calorimeter and the inner detector is based on
three fundamental components characterising the signature
of electrons: localised clusters of energy deposits found
within the electromagnetic calorimeter, charged-particle
tracks identiﬁed in the inner detector, and close matching
in η× φ space of the tracks to the clusters to form the ﬁnal
electron candidates. Therefore, electron reconstruction in the
precision region of the ATLAS detector ( |η| < 2.47) pro-
ceeds along those steps, described below in this order. Fig-
ure 1 provides a schematic illustration of the elements that
enter into the reconstruction and identiﬁcation (see Sect. 6)
of an electron.
5.1 Seed-cluster reconstruction
The η × φ space of the EM calorimeter is divided into a
grid of 200 × 256 elements (towers) of size /Delta1η× /Delta1φ=
0.025 × 0.025, corresponding to the granularity of the sec-
ond layer of the EM calorimeter. For each element, the energy
(approximately calibrated at the EM scale), collected in the
ﬁrst, second, and third calorimeter layers as well as in the
presampler (only for|η| < 1.8, the region where the presam-
pler is located) is summed to form the energy of the tower.
Electromagnetic-energy cluster candidates are then seeded
from localised energy deposits using a sliding-window algo-
rithm [27]o fs i z e3 × 5t o w e r si nη × φ, whose summed
transverse energy exceeds 2.5 GeV. The centre of the 3 × 5
seed cluster moves in steps of 0 .025 in either the η or φ
direction, searching for localised energy deposits; the seed-
cluster reconstruction process is repeated until this has been
performed for every element in the calorimeter. If two seed-
cluster candidates are found in close proximity (if their tow-
ers overlap within an area of /Delta1η× /Delta1φ= 5 × 9 units of
0.025 × 0
.025), the candidate with the higher transverse
energy is retained, if its ET is at least 10% higher than the
123

===== PAGE 7 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 7 of 40 639
Fig. 1 A schematic illustration of the path of an electron through the
detector. The red trajectory shows the hypothetical path of an electron,
which ﬁrst traverses the tracking system (pixel detectors, then silicon-
strip detectors and lastly the TRT) and then enters the electromagnetic
calorimeter. The dashed red trajectory indicates the path of a photon
produced by the interaction of the electron with the material in the
tracking system
other candidate. If their ET values are within 10% of each
other, the candidate containing the highest-ET central tower
is kept. The duplicate cluster is thereby removed. The recon-
struction efﬁciency of this seed-cluster algorithm (effectively
ϵ
EMclus in Eq. (1)) depends on|η| and ET. As a function ofET,
it ranges from 65% atET = 4.5 GeV, to 96% atET = 7G e V ,
to more than 99% above ET = 15 GeV, as can be seen in
Fig. 2. This efﬁciency is determined entirely from simula-
tion. Efﬁciency losses due to seed-cluster reconstruction for
ET > 15 GeV are negligible compared with the uncertainties
attributed to the next two steps of the reconstruction (track
reconstruction and track–cluster matching).
5.2 Track reconstruction
The basic building block for track reconstruction is a ‘hit’ in
one of the inner-detector tracking layers. Charged-particle
reconstruction in the pixel and SCT detectors begins by
assembling clusters from these hits [ 28]. From these clus-
ters, three-dimensional measurements referred to as space-
points are created. In the pixel detector, each cluster equates
to one space-point, while in the SCT, clusters from both stereo
views of a strip layer must be combined to obtain a three-
dimensional measurement. Track seeds are formed from sets
of three space-points in the silicon-detector layers. The track
reconstruction then proceeds in three steps: pattern recog-
nition, ambiguity resolution, and TRT extension (for more
details of the TRT extension, see Ref. [ 29]). The pattern-
recognition algorithm uses the pion hypothesis for the model
of energy loss from interactions of the particle with the detec-
tor material. However, if a track seed with p
T > 1G e V
cannot be successfully extended to a full track of at least
seven silicon hits per candidate track and the EM cluster sat-
isﬁes requirements on the shower width and depth, a second
attempt with modiﬁed pattern recognition, one which allows
up to 30% energy loss for bremsstrahlung at each intersection
of the track with the detector material, is made. Track candi-
dates with p
T > 400 MeV are ﬁt, according to the hypothesis
used in the pattern recognition, using the ATLAS Globalχ2
Track Fitter [30]. Any ambiguity resulting from track can-
didates sharing hits is resolved at the same stage. In order
to avoid inefﬁciencies for electron tracks with signiﬁcant
bremsstrahlung, if the ﬁt fails under the pion hypothesis and
its polar and azimuthal separation to the EM cluster is below
a value, a second ﬁt is attempted under an electron hypothe-
sis (an extra degree of freedom, in the form of an additional
Gaussian term, is added to theχ
2 to compensate for the addi-
tional bremsstrahlung losses coming from electrons; such an
energy-loss term is neglected in the pion-hypothesis ﬁt). Fig-
ure 2 (top) shows that the reconstruction efﬁciency of the
track-ﬁtting step ranges from 80% at E
T = 1G e Vt om o r e
than 98% above ET = 10 GeV.
123

===== PAGE 8 =====
639 Page 8 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
0 5 10 15 20 25
 [GeV]TTrue E
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Efficiency
 Reconstructed seed cluster
 Reconstructed seed track
 Reconstructed cluster and track
 Reconstructed electron candidate
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Efficiency
0.95
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1
recoεReconstruction efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
Fig. 2 Top: the total reconstruction efﬁciency for simulated electrons
in a single-electron sample is shown as a function of the true (generator)
transverse energy E
T for each step of the electron-candidate formation:
/Delta1η× /Delta1φ= 3 × 5 (in units of 0.025 × 0.025) seed-cluster reconstruc-
tion (red triangles), seed-track reconstruction using the Globalχ2 Track
Fitter (blue open circles), both of these steps together but instead using
GSF tracking (yellow squares), and the ﬁnal reconstructed electron can-
didate, which includes the track-to-cluster matching (black closed cir-
cles). As the cluster reconstruction requires uncalibrated cluster seeds
with E
T > 2.5 GeV, the total reconstruction efﬁciency is less than 60%
below 4.5 GeV (dashed line). Bottom: the reconstruction efﬁciency rel-
ative to reconstructed clusters,ϵreco, as a function of electron transverse
energy ET for Z → ee events, comparing data (closed circles) with
simulation (open circles). The inner uncertainties are statistical while
the total uncertainties include both the statistical and systematic com-
ponents
A subsequent ﬁtting procedure, using an optimised
Gaussian-sum ﬁlter (GSF) [ 31] designed to better account
for energy loss of charged particles in material, is applied
to the clusters of raw measurements. This procedure is used
for tracks which have at least four silicon hits and that are
loosely matched to EM clusters. The separation of the cluster-
barycentre position and the position of the track extrapolated
from the perigee to the second layer of the calorimeter must
satisfy |η
cluster − ηtrack| < 0.05 and one of two alterna-
tive requirements on the azimuthal separation between the
cluster position and the track: −0.20 </Delta1 φ<0.05 or
−0.10 </Delta1 φres < 0.05, where q is the sign of the electric
charge of the particle, and /Delta1φand /Delta1φres are calculated as
− q × (φcluster − φtrack) with the momentum of the track
rescaled to the energy of the cluster for/Delta1φres. The asymmet-
ric condition for the matching in φ mitigates the effects of
energy loss due to bremsstrahlung where tracks with nega-
tive (positive) electric charge bend due to the magnetic ﬁeld
in the positive (negative)φ direction.
The GSF method [ 32] is based on a generalisation of
the Kalman ﬁlter [33] and takes into account the non-linear
effects related to bremsstrahlung. Within the GSF, experi-
mental noise is modelled by a sum of Gaussian functions.
The GSF therefore consists of a number of Kalman ﬁlters
running in parallel, the result of which is that each track
parameter is approximated by a weighted sum of Gaussian
functions. Six Gaussian functions are used to describe the
material-induced energy losses and up to twelve to describe
the track parameters. In the ﬁnal step, the mode of the energy
distribution is used to represent the energy loss.
Radiative losses of energy lead to a decrease in momen-
tum, resulting in increased curvature of the electron’s trajec-
tory in the magnetic ﬁeld. When accounting for such losses
via the GSF method, all track parameters relevant to the
bending-plane are expected to improve. Such a parameter
is the transverse impact parameter signiﬁcance: d
0 divided
by its estimated uncertaintyσ(d0). Since the curvature, in the
ATLAS coordinate frame, is positive for negative particles
and negative for positive particles, the signed impact param-
eter signiﬁcance (i.e. multiplied by the sign of the recon-
structed electric charge q of the electron) is used. Figure 3
shows q × d
0/σ(d0) for the track associated with the elec-
tron, i.e. the primary electron track. A clear improvement
in q × d0/σ(d0) for genuine electron tracks ﬁtted with the
GSF over tracks with the ATLAS Global χ2 Track Fitter
is observed; the distribution is narrower and better centred
at zero. Figure 3 also shows, for the ratio of the electron-
candidate charge to its momentum q/ p, the relative differ-
ence between the true generator value and the reconstructed
value; the GSF method shows a sharper and better-centred
distribution near zero with smaller tails. The reconstruction
efﬁciency for ﬁnding both a seed cluster and a GSF track is
shown in Fig. 2 (top).
5.3 Electron-candidate reconstruction
The matching of the GSF-track candidate to the candi-
date calorimeter seed cluster and the determination of the
ﬁnal cluster size complete the electron-reconstruction pro-
cedure. This matching procedure is similar to the loose
matching discussed above prior to the GSF step, but with
stricter requirements; the track-matching in φ is tightened
123

===== PAGE 9 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 9 of 40 639
)0(dσ/0d×q
−10 −8 −6 −4 −20 2 468 10
Fraction of events
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.1
 Gaussian-Sum Filter (GSF)
 Track Fitter2χ Global 
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
true(q/p)
true-(q/p)reco(q/p)
−1 −0.5 0 0.5 11 . 5
Fraction of events
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
 Gaussian-Sum Filter (GSF)
 Track Fitter2χ Global 
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
Fig. 3 Distributions of the reconstructed electric charge of the can-
didate electron multiplied by the transverse impact parameter signiﬁ-
cance, q×d
0/σ(d0) (top) and the relative difference between the recon-
structed value of the candidate-electron charge divided by its momen-
tum, q/ p, and the true generator value (bottom). The distributions are
shown for tracks ﬁtted with the Globalχ
2 Track Fitter (dashed red lines)
and for tracks ﬁtted with the GSF (solid blue line). The distributions
were obtained from a simulated single-electron sample
to −0.10 </Delta1 φ<0.05, keeping the original alternative
requirement −0.10 </Delta1 φres < 0.05 the same. If several
tracks fulﬁl the matching criteria, the track considered to
be the primary electron track is selected using an algorithm
that takes into account the distance in η and φ between the
extrapolated tracks and the cluster barycentres measured in
the second layer of the calorimeter, the number of hits in the
silicon detectors, and the number of hits in the innermost
silicon layer; a candidate with an associated track with at
least four hits in the silicon layers and no association with
a vertex from a photon conversion [ 34] is considered as an
electron candidate. However, if the primary candidate track
can be matched to a secondary vertex and has no pixel hits,
then this object is classiﬁed as a photon candidate (likely a
conversion). A further classiﬁcation is performed using the
candidate electron’s E/ p and p
T, the presence of a pixel hit,
and the secondary-vertex information, to determine unam-
biguously whether the object is only to be considered as an
electron candidate or if it should be ambiguously classiﬁed
as potentially either a photon candidate or an electron can-
didate. However, this classiﬁcation scheme is mainly for the
beneﬁt of keeping a high photon-reconstruction efﬁciency.
Since all electron identiﬁcation operating points described
in Sect. 6 require a track with a hit in the innermost sil-
icon layer (or in the next-to-innermost layer if the inner-
most layer is non-operational), most candidates fall into the
‘unambiguous’ category after applying an identiﬁcation cri-
terion.
Finally, reconstructed clusters are formed around the seed
clusters using an extended window of size 3× 7 in the barrel
region (|η| < 1.37) or 5×5 in the endcap (1.52 < |η| < 2.47)
by simply expanding the cluster size in φ or η, respectively,
on either side of the original seed cluster. A method using
both elements of the extended-window size is used in the
transition region of 1 .37 < |η| < 1.52. The energy of
the clusters must ultimately be calibrated to correspond to
the original electron energy. This detailed calibration is per-
formed using multivariate techniques [35,36] based on data
and simulated samples, and only after the step of select-
ing electron candidates rather than during the reconstruc-
tion step, which relies on approximate EM-scale energy clus-
ters. The energy of the ﬁnal electron candidate is computed
from the calibrated energy of the extended-window clus-
ter while the φ and η directions are taken from the corre-
sponding track parameters, measured relative to the beam
spot, of the track best matched to the original seed clus-
ter.
Above E
T = 15 GeV, the efﬁciency to reconstruct an
electron having a track of good quality (at least one pixel
hit and at least seven silicon hits) varies from approximately
97–99%. The simulation has lower efﬁciency than data in
the low E
T region ( ET < 30 GeV) while the opposite is
true for the higher ET region ( ET > 30 GeV), as demon-
s t r a t e di nF i g s .2 and 4, which show the reconstruction efﬁ-
ciency as a function of ET and as a function of η in bins of
ET, respectively, from Z → ee events. All measurements
are binned in two dimensions. The uncertainty in the efﬁ-
ciency in data is typically 1% in the E
T = 15−20 GeV
bin and reaches the per-mille level at higher ET and the
uncertainty in simulation is almost an order of magnitude
smaller than for data. The systematic uncertainty domi-
nates at low E
T for data, with the estimation of back-
ground from clusters with no associated track giving the
largest contribution. Below ET = 15 GeV, the reconstruc-
tion efﬁciency is determined solely from the simulation;
a 2% (5%) uncertainty is assigned in the barrel (endcap)
region.
123

===== PAGE 10 =====
639 Page 10 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
Efficiency
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1
1.01
1.02
recoεReconstruction efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 < 20 GeVT15 GeV < E
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1
1.02
1.04
Efficiency
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1.01
1.02
recoεReconstruction efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 < 30 GeVT25 GeV < E
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1.02
1.04
Efficiency
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1
1.01
1.02 recoεReconstruction efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 < 45 GeVT40 GeV < E
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1
1.02
1.04
Efficiency
0.96
0.97
0.98
0.99
1
1.01
1.02 recoεReconstruction efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 < 150 GeVT80 GeV < E
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1
1.02
1.04
Fig. 4 Reconstruction efﬁciencies relative to reconstructed clusters,
ϵreco, evaluated in the 2015–2016 dataset (closed points) and in simu-
lation (open points), and their ratio, using the Z → ee process, as a
function of η in four illustrative ET bins: 15–20 GeV (top left), 25–
30 GeV (top right), 40–45 GeV (bottom left), and 80–150 GeV (bottom
right). The inner uncertainties are statistical while the total uncertainties
include both the statistical and systematic components
6 Electron identiﬁcation
Prompt electrons entering the central region of the detec-
tor (|η| < 2.47) are selected using a likelihood-based (LH)
identiﬁcation. The inputs to the LH include measurements
from the tracking system, the calorimeter system, and quan-
tities that combine both tracking and calorimeter information.
The various inputs are described in Table 1 and the compo-
nents of the quantities described in this table are illustrated
schematically in Fig. 1. The LH identiﬁcation is very simi-
lar in method to the electron LH identiﬁcation used in Run 1
(2010–2012) [3], but there are some important differences.
To prepare for the start of data-taking with a higher center-
of-mass energy and different detector conditions it was nec-
essary to construct probability density functions (pdfs) based
on simulated events rather than data events, and correct the
123

===== PAGE 11 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 11 of 40 639
resulting distributions for any mismodelling. Furthermore,
the efﬁciency was smoothed as a function of ET and the
likelihood was adjusted to allow its use for electrons with
ET > 300 GeV.
6.1 The likelihood identiﬁcation
The electron LH is based on the products for signal,L S, and
for background, L B ,o f n pdfs, P:
L S(B)(x) =
n∏
i=1
PS(B),i(xi), (2)
where x is the vector of the various quantities speciﬁed in
Table 1. PS,i(xi) is the value of the signal pdf for quantity
i at value xi and PB,i(xi) is the corresponding value of the
background pdf. The signal is prompt electrons, while the
background is the combination of jets that mimic the signa-
ture of prompt electrons, electrons from photon conversions
in the detector material, and non-prompt electrons from the
decay of hadrons containing heavy ﬂavours. Correlations in
the quantities selected for the LH are neglected.
For each electron candidate, a discriminantd
L is formed:
dL = L S
L S + L B
; (3)
the electron LH identiﬁcation is based on this discriminant.
The discriminant dL has a sharp peak at unity (zero) for sig-
nal (background); this sharp peak makes it inconvenient to
select operating points as it would require extremely ﬁne bin-
ning. An inverse sigmoid function is used to transform the
distribution of the discriminant of Eq. (3):
d
′
L =− τ−1 ln(d−1
L − 1),
where the parameterτis ﬁxed to 15 [37]. As a consequence,
the range of values of the transformed discriminant no longer
varies between zero and unity. For each operating point, a
value of the transformed discriminant is chosen: electron
candidates with values ofd
′
L larger than this value are consid-
ered signal. An example of the distribution of a transformed
discriminant is shown in Fig. 5 for prompt electrons from
Z-boson decays and for background. This distribution illus-
trates the effective separation between signal and background
encapsulated in this single quantity.
There are two advantages to using a LH-based electron
identiﬁcation over a selection-criteria-based (so-called “cut-
based”) identiﬁcation. First, a prompt electron may fail the
cut-based identiﬁcation because it does not satisfy the selec-
tion criterion for a single quantity. In the LH-based selec-
tion, this electron can still satisfy the identiﬁcation criteria,
because the LH combines the information of all of the dis-
criminating quantities. Second, discriminating quantities that
have distributions too similar to be used in a cut-based iden-
tiﬁcation without suffering large losses in efﬁciency may be
added to the LH-based identiﬁcation without penalty. Two
examples of quantities that are used in the LH-based identi-
ﬁcation, but not in cut-based identiﬁcations, are R
φ and f1,
which are deﬁned in Table 1. Figure 6 compares the dis-
tributions of these two quantities for prompt electrons and
background.
6.2 The pdfs for the LH-identiﬁcation
The pdfs for the electron LH are derived from the simula-
tion samples described in Sect. 3. As described below, dis-
tinct pdfs are determined for each identiﬁcation quantity in
separate bins of electron-candidate E
T and η. The pdfs are
created from ﬁnely binned histograms of the individual iden-
tiﬁcation quantities. To avoid non-physical ﬂuctuations in the
pdfs arising from the limited size of the simulation samples,
the histograms are smoothed using an adaptive kernel density
estimation (KDE) implemented in the TMV A toolkit [37].
Imperfect detector modelling causes differences between
the simulation quantities used to form the LH-identiﬁcation
and the corresponding quantities in data. Some simulation
quantities are corrected to account for these differences so
that the simulation models the data more accurately and
hence the determination of the LH-identiﬁcation operating
points is made using a simulation that reproduces the data as
closely as possible. These corrections are determined using
simulation and data obtained with theZ → ee tag-and-probe
method.
The differences between the data and the simulation typi-
cally appear as either a constant offset between the quantities
(i.e., a shift of the distributions) or a difference in the width,
quantiﬁed here as the full-width at half-maximum (FWHM)
of the distribution of the quantity. In some cases, both shift
and width corrections are applied. The quantities f
1, f3, Rη,
wη2 and Rφ have η-dependent offsets, and the quantities f1,
f3, Rhad, /Delta1η1 and /Delta1φres have differences in FWHM.
In the case that the difference is a shift, the value in the sim-
ulation is shifted by a ﬁxed ( η-dependent) amount to make
the distribution in the simulation agree better with the distri-
bution in the data. In the case of a difference in FWHM, the
value in the simulation is scaled by a multiplicative factor.
The optimal values of the shifts and width-scaling factors are
determined by minimising a χ
2 that compares the distribu-
tions in the data and the simulation. An example of applying
an offset is shown in the top panel of Fig. 7, while an exam-
ple of applying a width-scaling factor is shown in the bottom
panel of Fig. 7.
The pdfs for the ET range of 4.5 GeV to 15 GeV are deter-
mined using J/ψ → ee Monte Carlo simulation and the
123

===== PAGE 12 =====
639 Page 12 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
Table 1 Type and description of the quantities used in the electron
identiﬁcation. The columns labelled “Rejects” indicate whether a quan-
tity has signiﬁcant discrimination power between prompt electrons and
light-ﬂavour (LF) jets, photon conversions (γ), or non-prompt electrons
from the semileptonic decay of hadrons containing heavy-ﬂavour (HF)
quarks (b-o r c-quarks). In the column labelled “Usage,” an “LH” indi-
cates that the pdf of this quantity is used in formingL
S and L B (deﬁned
in Eq. ( 2)) and a “C” indicates that this quantity is used directly as a
selection criterion. In the description of the quantities formed using the
second layer of the calorimeter, 3×3, 3×5, 3×7, and 7×7 refer to areas
of /Delta1η× /Delta1φspace in units of 0.025 × 0.025
Type Description Name Rejects Usage
LF γ HF
Hadronic leakage Ratio of ET in the ﬁrst layer of the
hadronic calorimeter to ET of the
EM cluster (used over the range
|η| < 0.8o r |η| > 1.37)
R
had1 xx L H
Ratio of ET in the hadronic
calorimeter to ET of the EM
cluster (used over the range
0.8 < |η| < 1.37)
R
had xx L H
Third layer of EM calorimeter Ratio of the energy in the third
layer to the total energy in the
EM calorimeter. This variable is
only used for E
T < 80 GeV, due
to inefﬁciencies at high ET,a n d
is also removed from the LH for
|η| > 2.37, where it is poorly
modelled by the simulation.
f
3 xL H
Second layer of EM calorimeter Lateral shower width,√
(/Sigma1Ei η2
i )/(/Sigma1Ei ) − ((/Sigma1Ei ηi )/(/Sigma1Ei ))2,
where Ei is the energy and ηi is
the pseudorapidity of cell i and
the sum is calculated within a
window of 3×5 cells
w
η2 xx L H
Ratio of the energy in 3×3 cells
over the energy in 3×7 cells
centred at the electron cluster
position
R
φ xx L H
Ratio of the energy in 3×7 cells
over the energy in 7×7 cells
centred at the electron cluster
position
R
η xx xL H
First layer of EM calorimeter Shower width,√
(/Sigma1Ei (i − imax)2)/(/Sigma1Ei ),
where i runs over all strips in a
window of
/Delta1η× /Delta1φ≈ 0.0625 × 0.2,
corresponding typically to 20
strips in η,a n di
max is the index
of the highest-energy strip, used
for ET > 150 GeV only
wstot xx xC
Ratio of the energy difference
between the maximum energy
deposit and the energy deposit in
a secondary maximum in the
cluster to the sum of these
energies
E
ratio xx L H
Ratio of the energy in the ﬁrst layer
to the total energy in the EM
calorimeter
f
1 xL H
123

===== PAGE 13 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 13 of 40 639
Table 1 continued
Type Description Name Rejects Usage
LF γ HF
Track conditions Number of hits in the innermost
pixel layer
nBlayer xC
Number of hits in the pixel detector nPixel xC
Total number of hits in the pixel
and SCT detectors
nSi xC
Transverse impact parameter
relative to the beam-line
d0 xx L H
Signiﬁcance of transverse impact
parameter deﬁned as the ratio of
d
0 to its uncertainty
|d0/σ(d0)|x x L H
Momentum lost by the track
between the perigee and the last
measurement point divided by
the momentum at perigee
/Delta1p/ p xL H
TRT Likelihood probability based on
transition radiation in the TRT
eProbabilityHT x LH
Track–cluster matching /Delta1ηbetween the cluster position in
the ﬁrst layer and the
extrapolated track
/Delta1η
1 xx L H
/Delta1φbetween the cluster position in
the second layer of the EM
calorimeter and the
momentum-rescaled track,
extrapolated from the perigee,
times the charge q
/Delta1φ
res xx L H
Ratio of the cluster energy to the
track momentum, used for ET >
150 GeV only
E/ p xx C
Log-transformed likelihood discriminant
4− 3− 2− 1− 0 1 2
Fraction of events
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.09  Signal
 Background
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
|<0.6η<35 GeV, |T30 GeV<E
Fig. 5 The transformed LH-based identiﬁcation discriminant d′
L
for reconstructed electron candidates with good quality tracks with
30 GeV < ET < 35 GeV and |η| < 0.6. The black histogram is for
prompt electrons in a Z → ee simulation sample, and the red (dashed-
line) histogram is for backgrounds in a generic two-to-two process sim-
ulation sample (both simulation samples are described in Sect. 3). The
histograms are normalised to unit area
pdfs for ET > 15 GeV are determined using Z → ee Monte
Carlo simulation.
6.3 LH-identiﬁcation operating points and their
corresponding efﬁciencies
To cover the various required prompt-electron signal efﬁcien-
cies and corresponding background rejection factors needed
by the physics analyses carried out within the ATLAS Col-
laboration, four ﬁxed values of the LH discriminant are used
to deﬁne four operating points. These operating points are
referred to as VeryLoose, Loose, Medium, and Tight in the
text below, and correspond to increasing thresholds for the
LH discriminant. The numerical values of the discriminant
are determined using the simulation. As shown in more detail
later in this section, the efﬁciencies for identifying a prompt
electron with E
T = 40 GeV are 93%, 88%, and 80% for the
Loose, Medium, and Tight operating points, respectively.
The identiﬁcation is optimised in bins of cluster η (spec-
iﬁed in Table 2) and bins of ET (speciﬁed in Table 3). The
selected bins in clusterηare based on calorimeter geometry,
detector acceptances and the variation of the material in the
123

===== PAGE 14 =====
639 Page 14 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
φR
0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Fraction of events
0
0.005
0.01
0.015
 Signal
 Background
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
|<0.8η<30 GeV, 0.6<|T20 GeV<E
1f
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
Fraction of events
0
0.002
0.004
0.006
0.008
 Signal
 Background
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
|<0.8η<30 GeV, 0.6<|T20 GeV<E
Fig. 6 Examples of distributions of two quantitiesRφ (top) and f1 (bot-
tom), both deﬁned in Table 1 and shown for 20 GeV < ET < 30 GeV
and 0.6 < |η| < 0.8, that would be inefﬁcient if used in a cut-based
identiﬁcation, but which, nonetheless, have signiﬁcant discriminating
power against background and, therefore, can be used to improve a
LH-based identiﬁcation. In each ﬁgure, the red-dashed distribution is
determined from a background simulation sample and the black-line
distribution is determined from a Z → ee simulation sample. These
distributions are for reconstructed electron candidates before applying
any identiﬁcation. They are smoothed using an adaptive KDE and have
been corrected for offsets or differences in widths between the distri-
butions in data and simulation as described in Sect. 6.2
inner detector. The pdfs of the various electron-identiﬁcation
quantities vary with particle energy, which motivates the bins
in E
T. The rate and composition of the background also varies
with ηand ET.
To have a relatively smooth variation of electron-identi-
ﬁcation efﬁciency with electronET, the discriminant require-
ments are varied in ﬁner bins (speciﬁed in Table 3) than the
pdfs. To avoid large discontinuities in electron-identiﬁcation
efﬁciency at the bin boundaries in electron ET, the pdf val-
ues and discriminant requirements are linearly interpolated
between the centres of two adjacent bins in ET.
All of the operating points have ﬁxed requirements on
tracking criteria: the Loose, Medium, and Tight operating
3f
−0.01 −0.005 0 0.005 0.01 0.015 0.02 0.025 0.03
Fraction of events
0
0.02
0.04
0.06  Data
 Simulation
 Simulation corrected
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 33.9 fbs
|<1.15η<40 GeV, 0.80<|T30 GeV<E
hadR
−0.04 −0.02 0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08
Fraction of events
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
 Data
 Simulation
 Simulation corrected
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 33.9 fbs
|<1.15η<40 GeV, 0.80<|T30 GeV<E
Fig. 7 The f3 (top) and Rhad (bottom) pdf distributions in data and
simulation for prompt electrons that satisfy 30 GeV < ET < 40 GeV
and 0.80 < |η| < 1.15. The distributions for both simulation and data
are obtained using the Z → ee tag-and-probe method. KDE smoothing
has been applied to all distributions. The simulation is shown before
(shaded histogram) and after (open histogram) applying a constant shift
( f
3, top) and a width-scaling factor (Rhad, bottom). Although some |η|
bins of f3 additionally have a width-scaling factor, this particular |η|
bin only has a constant shift applied
points require at least two hits in the pixel detector and
seven hits total in the pixel and silicon-strip detectors com-
bined. For the Medium and Tight operating points, one of
these pixel hits must be in the innermost pixel layer (or in
the next-to-innermost layer if the innermost layer is non-
operational). This requirement helps to reduce the back-
ground from photon conversions. A variation of the Loose
operating point—LooseAndBLayer—uses the same thresh-
old for the LH discriminant as the Loose operating point and
also adds the requirement of a hit in the innermost pixel layer.
The VeryLoose operating point does not include an explicit
requirement on the innermost pixel layer and requires only
one hit in the pixel detector; the goal of this operating point
is to provide relaxed identiﬁcation requirements for back-
ground studies.
123

===== PAGE 15 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 15 of 40 639
Table 2 Boundaries in absolute cluster pseudorapidity used to deﬁne
the nine bins for the LH pdfs and LH discriminant requirements
Bin boundaries in |η|
0.0 0.6 0.8 1.15 1.37 1.52 1.81 2.01 2.37 2.47
The pdfs of some of the LH quantities—particularly Rhad
and Rη—are affected by additional activity in the calorime-
ter due to pile-up, making them more background-like. The
number of additional inelastic pp collisions in each event is
quantiﬁed using the number of reconstructed primary ver-
tices n
vtx. In each ηbin and ET bin, the LH discriminant d′
L
is adjusted to include a linear variation with nvtx. Imposing
a constraint of constant prompt-electron efﬁciency with nvtx
leads to an unacceptable increase in backgrounds. Instead,
the background efﬁciency is constrained to remain approx-
imately constant as a function of nvtx, and this constraint
results in a small (≤ 5 %) decrease in signal efﬁciency with
nvtx.
The minimum ET of the electron identiﬁcation was
reduced from 7 GeV in Run 1 to 4.5 GeV in Run 2. The
use of J/ψ → ee to determine LH pdfs at low E
T is also
new in Run 2. The push towards lower ET was motivated in
part by searches for supersymmetric particles in compressed
scenarios. In these scenarios, small differences between the
masses of supersymmetric particles can lead to leptons with
low transverse momentum.
Special treatment is required for electrons with E
T >
80 GeV. The f3 quantity (deﬁned in Table 1) degrades the
capability to distinguish signal from background because
high-ET electrons deposit a larger fraction of their energy
in the third layer of the EM calorimeter (making them more
hadron-like) than low-E
T electrons. For this reason and since
it is not modelled well in the simulation, the pdf for f3
is removed from the LH for ET > 80 GeV. Furthermore,
changes with increasing prompt-electron ET in the Rhad and
f1 quantities cause a large decrease in identiﬁcation efﬁ-
ciency for ET > 300 GeV. Studies during development of
the identiﬁcation algorithm showed that this loss in efﬁciency
was very large for the Tight operating point (the identiﬁca-
tion efﬁciency fell from 95% at ET = 300 GeV to 73% for
ET = 2000 GeV). To mitigate this loss, for electron candi-
dates with ET > 150 GeV, the LH discriminant threshold
for the Tight operating point is set to be the same as for the
Medium operating point, and two additional selection criteria
are added to the Tight selection:E/ p and w
stot. The require-
ment on wstot depends on the electron candidateη, while the
requirement on E/ p is E/ p < 10. The high value of the
latter requirement takes into account the decreased momen-
tum resolution in track ﬁts of a few 100 GeV and above.
With these modiﬁcations, good signal efﬁciency and back-
ground rejection are maintained for very high E
T electrons
in searches for physics beyond the Standard Model, such as
W′ → eν.
In Run 1, electron candidates satisfying tighter operating
points did not necessarily satisfy the more efﬁcient looser
operating points. This situation was a result of using differ-
ent quantities in the electron LH for the different operating
points. In Run 2, electron candidates satisfying tighter oper-
ating points also satisfy less restrictive operating points, i.e.
an electron candidate that satisﬁes the Tight criteria will also
pass the Medium, Loose, and VeryLoose criteria.
Another important difference in the electron identiﬁcation
between Run 1 and Run 2 is that the LH identiﬁcation is used
in the online event selection (the high-level trigger, HLT) in
Run 2, instead of a cut-based identiﬁcation in Run 1. This
change helps to reduce losses in efﬁciency incurred by apply-
ing the ofﬂine identiﬁcation criteria in addition to the online
criteria. The LH identiﬁcation in the trigger is designed to be
as close as possible to the LH used in ofﬂine data analysis;
however, there are some important differences. The /Delta1p/ p
quantity is removed from the LH because it relies on the
GSF algorithm (see Sect. 5.2), which is too CPU-intensive
for use in the HLT. The average number of interactions per
bunch crossing, ⟨μ⟩, is used to quantify the amount of pile-
up, again because the determination of the number of pri-
mary vertices, n
vtx, is too CPU-intensive for the HLT. Both
the d0 and d0/σ(d0) quantities are removed from the LH
used in the trigger in order to preserve efﬁciency for elec-
trons from exotic processes which might have non-zero track
impact parameters. Finally, the LH identiﬁcation in the trig-
ger uses quantities reconstructed in the trigger, which gener-
ally have poorer resolution than the same quantities recon-
structed ofﬂine. The online operating points corresponding to
VeryLoose, Loose, Medium, and Tight are designed to have
efﬁciencies relative to reconstruction like those of the corre-
sponding ofﬂine operating points. Due to these differences,
the inefﬁciency of the online selection for electrons fulﬁlling
the same operating point as the ofﬂine selection is typically
a few percent (absolute), up to 7% for the Tight operating
point.
The efﬁciencies of the LH-based electron identiﬁcation for
the Loose, Medium, and Tight operating points for data and
the corresponding data-to-simulation ratios are summarised
in Figs. 8 and 9. They are extracted from J/ψ → ee and
Z → ee events, as discussed in Sect. 4. The variations of
the efﬁciencies with E
T, η, and the number of reconstructed
primary vertices are shown. Requirements on the transverse
(d
0) and longitudinal (z0) impact parameters measured as the
distance of closest approach of the track to the measured pri-
mary vertex (taking into account the beam-spot and the tilt of
the beam-line) are applied when evaluating the numerator of
the identiﬁcation efﬁciency. For the Tight operating point, the
identiﬁcation efﬁciency varies from 55% at E
T = 4.5G e V
to 90% at ET = 100 GeV, while it ranges from 85% at
123

===== PAGE 16 =====
639 Page 16 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
Table 3 Boundaries in electron
transverse energy used to deﬁne
the seven bins for the LH pdfs
and the twelve bins for LH
discriminant requirements
Bin boundaries in ET [GeV]
p d f s 4 . 571 01 52 0 3 0 4 0 ∞
Discriminant 4.5 7 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 80 150 ∞
ET = 20 GeV to 96% at ET = 100 GeV for the Loose oper-
ating point. The uncertainties in these measured efﬁciencies
for the Loose (Tight) operating point range from 3% (4%) at
ET = 4.5 GeV to 0.1% (0.3%) for ET = 40 GeV. As men-
tioned earlier in this section, simulation was used to deter-
mine the discriminant values that deﬁne the various operating
points, with the intended outcome that the efﬁciencies would
fall smoothly with decreasing electron E
T, while keeping
the rapidly increasing background at acceptable levels. The
simple offsets and width variations applied to the simulation
to account for mismodelling of the EM-calorimeter shower
shapes (see Sect.6.2) work well at higher electronE
T, but are
unable to fully correct the simulation at lower electron ET.
This leads to an unintended larger efﬁciency in data for sig-
nal electrons at lower E
T, as can be seen in Fig.8. The ﬁgure
also shows the corresponding rise in the data-to-simulation
ratios.
The lower efﬁciencies of the Medium and Tight operat-
ing points compared to Loose result in an increased rejection
of background; the rejection factors for misidentiﬁed elec-
trons from multijet production (evaluated with the two-to-
two process simulation sample described in Sect.3) increase
typically by factors of approximately 2.5 for Medium and 5
for Tight compared to Loose, in the E
T range of 4–50 GeV.
Computations and measurements of the rejection, especially
absolute rejections, are typically associated with large uncer-
tainties due to ambiguities in the deﬁnition of the denomi-
nator, and the diversity of the sources of background. The
factors mentioned above are similar to those published in
Table 3 of the ATLAS Run-1 publication [ 3] when these
considerations are taken into account.
7 Electron isolation
A considerable challenge at the LHC experiments is to dif-
ferentiate the prompt production of electrons, muons, and
photons in signal processes (from the hard-scattering vertex,
or from the decay of heavy resonances such as Higgs,W , and
Z bosons) from background processes such as semileptonic
decays of heavy quarks, hadrons misidentiﬁed as leptons
and photons, and photons converting into electron–positron
pairs in the detector material upstream of the electromag-
netic calorimeter. A characteristic signature of such a signal
is represented by little activity (both in the calorimeter and
in the inner detector) in an area of /Delta1η× /Delta1φsurrounding
Efficiency
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
idεData identification efficiency 
 Loose
 Medium
 Tight
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Data / MC 0.9
1
1.1
Efficiency
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
idεData identification efficiency 
 Loose
 Medium
 Tight
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
>4.5 GeVTE
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 0.9
1
1.1
Fig. 8 Measured LH electron-identiﬁcation efﬁciencies in Z → ee
events for the Loose (blue circle), Medium (red square), and Tight (black
triangle) operating points as a function ofE
T (top) and η(bottom). The
vertical uncertainty bars (barely visible because they are small) rep-
resent the statistical (inner bars) and total (outer bars) uncertainties.
The data efﬁciencies are obtained by applying data-to-simulation efﬁ-
ciency ratios that are measured in J/ψ → ee and Z → ee events to
the Z → ee simulation. For both plots, the bottom panel shows the
data-to-simulation ratios
123

===== PAGE 17 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 17 of 40 639
Efficiency
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
idεData identification efficiency 
 Loose
 Medium
 Tight>30 GeVTE
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 33.9 fbs
Number of primary vertices
5 10 15 20 25 30
Data / MC 0.9
1
1.1
Fig. 9 The LH electron-identiﬁcation efﬁciencies for electron candi-
dates with ET > 30 GeV for the Loose (blue circle), Medium (red
square), and Tight (black triangle) operating points as a function of
the number of primary vertices in the 2016 data using the Z → ee
process. The shaded histogram shows the distribution of the number of
primary vertices for the 2016 data. The inner uncertainties are statistical
while the total uncertainties include both the statistical and systematic
components. The bottom panel shows the data-to-simulation ratios
the candidate object. However, the production of boosted
particles decaying, for example, into collimated electron–
positron pairs or the production of prompt electrons, muons,
and photons within a busy experimental environment such
as in t
t production can obscure the picture. Variables are
constructed that quantify the amount of activity in the vicin-
ity of the candidate object, something usually performed by
summing the transverse energies of clusters in the calorime-
ter or the transverse momenta of tracks in a cone of radius
/Delta1R =
√
(/Delta1η)2 + (/Delta1φ)2 around the direction of the electron
candidate, excluding the candidate itself.
Several components enter into building such isolation
variables: identifying the candidate object itself, its direction,
and its contribution to the activity within the cone, and sum-
ming, in a pile-up and underlying-event robust way, the other
activity found within the cone. The two classes of isolation
variables considered in this paper are based on calorimeter
and tracking measurements, and are respectively discussed
in Sects. 7.1 and 7.2.
7.1 Calorimeter-based isolation
The reconstruction of electron candidates is described in
Sect. 5. To build an isolation variable, a cone of size /Delta1R is
then delineated around the candidate electron’s cluster posi-
tion.
The computation of calorimeter-based isolation in the
early running period of ATLAS simply summed the trans-
verse energies of the calorimeter cells (from both the electro-
magnetic and hadronic calorimeters) within a cone aligned
with the electron direction, excluding the candidate’s con-
tribution. This type of calorimeter-based variable exhib-
ited a lack of pile-up resilience and demonstrated poor
data–simulation agreement. A signiﬁcant improvement was
achieved by using the transverse energies of topological clus-
ters [38] instead of cells, thus effectively applying a noise-
suppression algorithm to the collection of cells.
Topological clusters are seeded by cells with a deposited
electromagnetic-scale energy of more than four times the
expected noise-level threshold of that cell; this includes both
electronic noise and the effects of pileup. The clusters are
then expanded, in the three spatial directions across all elec-
tromagnetic and hadronic calorimeter layers, by iteratively
adding neighbouring cells that contain a deposited energy
more than twice the noise level. After the expansion around
the cluster stops due to a lack of cells satisfying the energy
threshold requirements, a ﬁnal shell of cells surrounding the
agglomeration is added to the cluster. The topological clus-
ters used in the isolation computation are not further cali-
brated: they remain at the electromagnetic scale, regardless
of the origin of the particle.
The energies of all positive-energy topological clusters,
whose barycentres fall within the cone of radius/Delta1R, as illus-
trated in Fig. 10, are summed into the raw isolation energy
variable E
isol
T,raw. This raw isolation energy still includes the
energy deposited by the candidate electron, called the core
energy E
T,core. The core energy is subtracted by removing
the cells included in a /Delta1η× /Delta1φ= 0.125 × 0.175 rectangle
around the candidate’s direction, as illustrated in Fig.10.T h e
advantage of this method is its simplicity and stable subtrac-
tion scheme for both the signal and background candidates. A
disadvantage of this method is that the candidate object may
deposit energy outside of this ﬁxed rectangular area which
may be incorrectly assigned as additional activity, requiring
an additional leakage correction to the subtracted core energy.
The core leakage correction is evaluated using samples of
simulated single electrons (without additional pile-up activ-
ity). The energy leaking into the cone is then ﬁt to a Crystal
Ball function; its most probable value μ
CB is parameterised
as a function of ET and is used as an estimator of the average
leakage, ET,leakage(ET). The corrections are derived in ten
bins of the associated cluster ηposition.
Figure 11 shows the isolation energy corrected with a rect-
angular core, without and with the calculated leakage correc-
tion, as a function of the electron ET for a sample of simu-
lated single electrons which includes the effects of pile-up; a
123

===== PAGE 18 =====
639 Page 18 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
φ
η
Fig. 10 Schema of the calorimeter isolation method: the grid repre-
sents the second-layer calorimeter cells in the η and φ directions. The
candidate electron is located in the centre of the purple circle represent-
ing the isolation cone. All topological clusters, represented in red, for
which the barycentres fall within the isolation cone are included in the
computation of the isolation variable. The 5 × 7 cells (which cover an
area of/Delta1η×/Delta1φ= 0.125×0.175) represented by the yellow rectangle
correspond to the subtracted cells in the core subtraction method
leakage correction is essential when using a rectangular core
region.
The pile-up and underlying-event contribution to the isola-
tion cone is estimated from the ambient energy density [39].
For each event, the entire calorimeter acceptance up to
|η|= 5 is used to gather positive-energy topological clus-
ters using the kt jet-clustering algorithm [40,41] with radius
parameter R = 0.5, with no jet pT threshold. The area A
of each jet is estimated and the transverse energy density ρ
of each jet is computed as ρ = pT/A. The median energy
density ρmedian of the distribution of jet densities in the event
is used as an estimator of the transverse energy density of
the event. For a simulated Z → ee sample at √ s = 13 TeV
with average pile-up ⟨μ⟩= 22, ρmedian is approximately
4 GeV per unit of η − φ space in the central η region of
the calorimeter, decreasing to 2 GeV at |η|= 2.5. The pile-
up/underlying-event correction is then evaluated as:
ET,pile-up(η)= ρmedian(η)×
(
π/Delta1R2 − Acore
)
,
where /Delta1R is the radius of the isolation cone and Acore is the
area of the signal core that was subtracted. Theηdependence
of ρ is estimated in two bins: |η| < 1.5 and 1 .5 < |η| <
3.0. Figure 11 shows the size of this pile-up correction for a
simulated single-electron sample with ⟨μ⟩= 13.5 pile-up.
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
 [GeV]〉T
isolE〈
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
=13.5〉μ〈
T,core - ET,raw
isol E
T,leakage - ET,core - ET,raw
isol
 E
T,pile-up - ET,leakage - ET,core - ET,raw
isol E
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
Fig. 11 Isolation transverse energy built with a cone of radius /Delta1R =
0.2, corrected with a rectangular core without (black dashed line) and
with (red dot-dashed line) the leakage correctionET,leakage as a function
of the electron ET, for a simulated sample with electron candidates
in the central region of the detector ( |η| < 2.47) that satisfy a Tight
electron identiﬁcation criterion. This ﬁgure also shows the size of the
pile-up correction E
T,pile-up (the difference between the red dot-dashed
line and solid blue line). The curves were obtained from a simulated
single-electron sample that includes the effects of ⟨μ⟩= 13.5 pile-up
The fully corrected calorimeter-based isolation variable
Eisol
T,cone calculated within the cone of radius /Delta1R is then
obtained after subtracting the components described above,
namely
E
isol
T,cone = Eisol
T,raw − ET,core − ET,leakage − ET,pile-up.
Figure 11 shows the resulting distribution as a function of
the transverse energy of the electron for a simulated single-
electron sample. The distribution is slightly positive since
only positive-energy clusters are summed, allowing for only
positive ﬂuctuations from noise.
7.2 Track-based isolation
The computation of track-based isolation variables uses
tracks with p
T > 1 GeV, reconstructed within a ﬁducial
region of the inner detector, |η| < 2.5, and that satisfy basic
track-quality requirements. This track selection, optimised
using candidate muons from simulated t
t samples, includes
a minimum number of hits identiﬁed in the silicon detec-
tors and a maximum number of inoperable detector regions
crossed by the track. In order to minimise the impact of
pile-up, a requirement is placed on the longitudinal impact
parameter, z
0, corrected for the reconstructed position of the
primary vertex and multiplied by the sine of the track polar
angle: |z0 sin θ| < 3 mm. This requirement on|z0 sin θ| aims
to select tracks that originate from the vertex that is chosen to
be the relevant vertex of the process. In most cases, the rele-
123

===== PAGE 19 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 19 of 40 639
vant vertex corresponds to the “hardest” vertex of the event,
i.e. the vertex for which the sum of the squares of the trans-
verse momenta of the associated tracks is the largest; this is
the vertex used by default in the track-isolation computation.
Track-based isolation variables are constructed by summing
the transverse momenta of the tracks found within a cone
of radius /Delta1R aligned with the electron track, excluding the
candidate’s own contribution.
The track-p
T contribution of the candidate electron to the
track-isolation variable must be subtracted from the cone.
Electrons can undergo bremsstrahlung radiation with the
radiated photons converting into secondary electrons; such
additional particles should be counted as part of the initial
particle’s energy. For this reason, tracks are extrapolated to
the second layer of the EM calorimeter. All extrapolated
tracks that fall within a /Delta1η× /Delta1φ= 0.05 × 0.1 window
around the cluster position are considered to be part of the
candidate and are removed from the track-isolation-variable
computation. The resulting track-isolation variable is called
p
isol
T .
Unlike calorimeter isolation, where a cone with a radius
much less than /Delta1R = 0.2 is difﬁcult to build due to the
ﬁnite granularity of the calorimeter, the much smaller tracker
granularity allows the use of narrower cone sizes. For exam-
ple, in boosted decay signatures or very busy environments,
other objects can be close to the signal lepton direction. For
such cases, a variable-cone-size track isolation, p
isol
T,var, can
be used, one that progressively decreases in size as a function
of the pT of the candidate:
/Delta1R = min
( 10 GeV
pT[GeV], Rmax
)
,
where Rmax is the maximum cone size (typically 0 .2–0.4).
The value of 10 GeV in the argument is derived with a sim-
ulated tt sample, and designed to maximise the rejection of
background.
7.3 Optimisation of isolation criteria and resulting
efﬁciency measurements
The implementation of isolation criteria is speciﬁc to the
physics analysis needs, be it to identify isolated prompt elec-
trons or electrons produced in a busy environment, or to reject
light hadrons misidentiﬁed as electrons. Precision measure-
ments with copious signal at lowerp
T may favour tighter iso-
lation requirements, and be willing to sacriﬁce some signal in
order to ensure high background rejection, whereas searches
at high pT may instead favour looser requirements in order to
maintain high signal efﬁciency. Therefore, several isolation
operating points were established that use calorimeter-based
isolation in a cone of radius /Delta1R = 0.2 (Sect. 7.1) or track-
based isolation using a variable-size cone withRmax = 0.2o r
0.4 (Sect. 7.2), or both types of isolation simultaneously. The
requirements for each efﬁciency-targeted operating point are
established in bins of electron E
T and ηwith edges:
• ET [GeV]: 7, 10, 15, 20, 25, 27.5, 30, 32.5, 35–45 (1 GeV
bins), 47.5, 50, 60, 80, ∞ ,
•| η|: 0, 0.1, 0.6, 0.8, 1.15, 1.37, 1.52, 1.81, 2.01, 2.37,
2.47.
The operating points are deﬁned in three categories:
• targeting a ﬁxed value of the isolation efﬁciency ϵiso,
uniform in the ET,η of the electron (‘Loose’ isolation),
• targeting a ﬁxed value of the isolation efﬁciency ϵiso,
dependent on the ET of the electron but uniform in η
(‘Gradient’ isolation),
• imposing ﬁxed requirements on the value of the isolation
variable (‘Fix’).
Figure 12 shows the isolation efﬁciencies measured in data
and the corresponding data-to-simulation ratios as a func-
tion of the electron E
T and η for the operating points given
in Table 4 and for candidate electrons satisfying Tight iden-
tiﬁcation requirements. The efﬁciencies that determine the
values of the requirements given in Table 4 are evaluated in
simulation from a J/ψ → ee sample for E
T < 15 GeV and
from a Z → ee sample for ET > 15 GeV. Since the value
of the efﬁciency is process dependent, this can result in a
jump in efﬁciency at the transition point of E
T = 15 GeV,
as can be seen in the top-left plot of Fig. 12, which was pro-
duced with a Z → ee sample over the full ET range. The
overall differences between data and simulation are less than
approximately 2–4%; the operating point ‘Fix (Tight)’ has
the most signiﬁcant difference in shape in η.
8 Electron-charge identiﬁcation
8.1 Reconstruction of electric charge
The electric charge of an electron is determined from the
curvature of the associated track reconstructed in the inner
detector. The misidentiﬁcation of electron charge can result
from the matching of an incorrect track to the electron can-
didate or from a mismeasurement of the curvature of the
primary electron track.
The probability of bremsstrahlung emission and subse-
quent photon conversion to an electron–positron pair (see
Sect. 5) depends signiﬁcantly on the amount of detector mate-
rial traversed. As shown in Fig. 13 (top, left) for a simu-
lated Z → ee sample, most electrons for which the wrong
charge was assigned are found in the pseudorapidity region
123

===== PAGE 20 =====
639 Page 20 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
Efficiency
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
isoεData isolation efficiency 
 Loose (Track Only)
 Loose
 Gradient (Loose)
 Gradient
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Data / MC 
0.98
0.99
1
1.01
Efficiency
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
isoεData isolation efficiency 
 Loose (Track Only)
 Loose
 Gradient (Loose)
 Gradient
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
>4.5 GeVTE
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.98
0.99
1
1.01
Efficiency
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
isoεData isolation efficiency 
 Fix (Loose)
 Fix (Tight, Track Only)
 Fix (Calo only)
 = 0.4)max Fix (Track R
 Fix (Tight)
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs -1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1
1.02
1.04
Efficiency
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
isoεData isolation efficiency 
 Fix (Loose)
 Fix (Tight, Track Only)
 Fix (Calo only)
 = 0.4)max Fix (Track R
 Fix (Tight)
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
>4.5 GeVTE
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.96
0.98
1
1.02
1.04
Fig. 12 Isolation efﬁciencies for data (in the upper panels) and the ratio
to simulation (lower panels) for the operating points given in Table 4
as a function of candidate-electron ET (left) and η (right) in Z → ee
events. Top plots: efﬁciencies for optimised operating points target-
ing speciﬁc efﬁciencies. Bottom plots: efﬁciencies for operating points
where ﬁxed requirements are applied to the isolation variables. Cone
sizes of /Delta1R = 0.2 for calorimeter isolation and R
max = 0.2 for track
isolation are used (except for “Fix (Track Rmax = 0.4)” where a twice
larger radius cone is used). The inner uncertainties are statistical while
the total uncertainties include both the statistical and systematic com-
ponents
1.5 < |η| < 2.2, corresponding to a region in the detector
with a relatively large amount of inactive material.
Pair production resulting from bremsstrahlung is the main
reason why a wrong track can be matched to the electron
candidate; three tracks in close proximity are present, two
of which have the correct charge assignment, causing an
ambiguity in the selection of the primary electron track.
In this context, “correct track” means the primary electron
track while “correct charge” means the track has the same
reconstructed charge as the primary electron. The number of
reconstructed tracks passing the requirements described in
Sect. 5.3 i ss h o w ni nF i g .13 (top, right); events with electrons
123

===== PAGE 21 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 21 of 40 639
Table 4 Deﬁnition of the electron-isolation operating points and isola-
tion efﬁciency ϵiso. For the ‘Gradient’ operating points, the units of pT
are GeV. All operating points use a cone size of/Delta1R = 0.2 for calorime-
ter isolation and Rmax = 0.2 for track isolation except for the ﬁnal entry
‘Fix (Track)’ which uses Rmax = 0.4. The values are obtained from a
simulated Z → ee sample where electrons satisfy Tight identiﬁcation
requirements
Operating point Eisol
T,cone pisol
T,var Total ϵiso
(/Delta1R = 0.2) ( Rmax = 0.2)
Loose (Track Only) – ϵiso = 99% 99%
Loose ϵiso = 99% ϵiso = 99% 98%
Gradient ϵiso = 0.1143 × pT + 92.14% ϵiso = 0.1143 × pT + 92.14% 90 (99)%a t2 5(60) GeV
Gradient (Loose) ϵiso = 0.057 × pT + 95.57% ϵiso = 0.057 × pT + 95.57% 95 (99)%a t2 5(60) GeV
Fix (Loose) Eisol
T,cone/ pT < 0.20 pisol
T,var/ pT < 0.15 –
Fix (Tight) Eisol
T,cone/ pT < 0.06 pisol
T,var/ pT < 0.06 –
Fix (Tight, Track Only) – pisol
T,var/ pT < 0.06 –
Fix (Calo Only) Eisol
T,cone < 3.5G e V – –
Fix (Track Rmax = 0.4) Eisol
T,cone/ pT < 0.11 pisol
T,var/ pT < 0.06 –
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Fraction of events
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
0.08
0.09
 correct track and charge
 correct track, wrong charge
 wrong track, correct charge 
 wrong track and charge
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
tracksn
123456789
Fraction of events
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
 correct track and charge
 correct track, wrong charge
 wrong track, correct charge 
 wrong track and charge
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
)0(dσ/0d×q
10− 8− 6− 4− 2− 02468 1 0
Fraction of events
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
 correct track and charge
 correct track, wrong charge
 wrong track, correct charge 
 wrong track and charge
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
E/p
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
Fraction of events
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
 correct track and charge
 correct track, wrong charge
 wrong track, correct charge 
 wrong track and charge
ATLAS Simulation
 = 13 TeVs
Fig. 13 Kinematic and tracking properties of electrons from a simu-
lated Z → ee sample. Top, left: track pseudorapidity. Top, right: mul-
tiplicity of associated tracks. Bottom, left: electric charge multiplied
by the transverse impact parameter signiﬁcance. Bottom, right: energy-
to-momentum ratio, in each case for electrons with the correctly and
incorrectly reconstructed charge with respect to the particle that caused
the track and the correctly and incorrectly assigned track with respect
to the primary electron. The distributions are normalised to the same
area 123

===== PAGE 22 =====
639 Page 22 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
that have a wrongly assigned track tend to have higher track
multiplicities. Electrons produced in conversions of photons
originating from the primary electron have a most probable
value of three tracks regardless of whether the charge was
correctly reconstructed or not, illustrating the probabilistic
nature of the process.
The presence of additional electrons and positrons in close
proximity can cause the track to be reconstructed from hits of
primary and secondary electrons and positrons. Signiﬁcant
energy loss can also distort the shape of the track. At very high
energies or large pseudorapidities, the tracks can also become
straighter and hence it is difﬁcult to determine their curvature.
All of these effects impact the ability to correctly ﬁt the track,
as can be seen from the comparison of the correct charge and
wrong charge distributions for the correctly assigned track.
These effects are more pronounced as a function of increased
passive material, located at large values of η, as shown by
comparing the equivalent two distributions in Fig. 13 (top,
left).
Figure 13 (bottom, left) and (bottom, right) show the dis-
tributions of the electric charge multiplied by the transverse
impact parameter signiﬁcance q × d
0/σ(d0) and the E/ p,
respectively, for electron candidates with correctly and incor-
rectly reconstructed charge and assigned track. As expected,
electrons with incorrectly reconstructed charge tend to have
a larger magnitude of d
0/σ(d0). Their q × d0/σ(d0) tends
to be more negative due to the incorrect measurement of the
electric charge. The distributions have a signiﬁcant fraction
of events with E/ p ̸= 1, due to either the wrong track being
matched to the candidate electron or the wrong track curva-
ture being measured, resulting in an erroneous measurement
of the electron’s momentum.
8.2 Suppression of charge misidentiﬁcation
The charge-misidentiﬁcation rate for reconstructed electron
candidates can be reduced with an additional selection crite-
rion based on the output discriminant of a boosted decision
tree (BDT) trained using the TMV A toolkit. The training of
the BDT is performed on a simulated single-electron sample.
A set of eight variables related to the quality of the chosen
primary electron track, the lateral development of the elec-
tromagnetic shower (which is expected to be narrower for
electrons that don’t undergo bremsstrahlung), and combined
tracking and calorimeter quantities is used to separate elec-
trons with the correctly reconstructed electric charge from
those reconstructed with the wrong charge. The list of these
quantities, ranked by their contribution to the discriminating
power of the selection (highest to lowest, as evaluated with a
simulated Z → ee sample), is: E/ p, /Delta1φ
res, q ×d0, the pseu-
dorapidity η of the electron, Rφ, (q/ p)/σ(q/ p), /Delta1φ1, and
the transverse energy ET of the electron. Table 1 provides
the deﬁnitions of these variables except for the charge-to-
momentum ratio q/ p divided by its uncertaintyσ(q/ p) and
the distance inφ between the cluster position in the ﬁrst layer
of the calorimeter and the extrapolated track, /Delta1φ1.
The BDT parameters are optimised to achieve the best
possible rejection of electrons reconstructed with the wrong
charge given an efﬁciency loss of 3% for electrons with
correctly reconstructed charge. The resulting efﬁciencies
from applying the additional BDT requirement for electrons
already identiﬁed with a Medium requirement (see Sect. 6)
are shown in Fig. 14 for candidate electrons from Z → ee
events. The inclusion of the kinematic properties E
T and η
in the BDT introduces a dependence of the efﬁciency on
these quantities (in particular forη), even for electron candi-
dates reconstructed with the correct charge. The differences
observed between data and simulation arise not only from
mismodelling of some of the electromagnetic shower shapes
in the simulation but also from the modelling of compli-
cated objects such as the beam-spot. For this reason, data-to-
simulation scale factors are calculated; they are also shown
in Fig. 14.A tv e r yh i g h|η|, the efﬁciency in data is approx-
imately 76%. The corresponding efﬁciency in simulation is
about 8% higher, due to mismodelling. Analyses using same-
charge dilepton pairs such as searches for supersymmetry in
same-charge signatures [ 42] or the search for Higgs boson
production in association with a top-quark pair [ 43] beneﬁt
from a suppression of electrons from charge misidentiﬁca-
tion with the BDT requirement.
8.3 Measurement of the probability of charge
misidentiﬁcation
A measurement of the probability of charge misidentiﬁca-
tion is performed using a sample of Z → ee events where
both electrons are required to satisfy the same identiﬁcation
and isolation criteria. The probability ϵ for an electron to be
reconstructed with the wrong charge in a given (η, E
T) bin
is obtained from the numbers of events where both electrons
have the same (SC) and opposite electric charges (OC). The
average expected number of same-charge events for a pair
of electrons falling into their respective (η, E
T) bins i and
j, NSC
ij , follows from the total number of observed events
nOC+SC
ij in these same two(η, ET) bins regardless of charge,
corrected for the charge-misidentiﬁcation probability in each
bin ϵi, j :
NSC
ij = nOC+SC
ij [(1 − ϵi)ϵ j + (1 − ϵ j)ϵi].
The probabilities ϵi and ϵ j are obtained by maximising the
Poisson likelihood to observe the number of same-charge
events nSC
ij in these bins. The non-prompt-background con-
tributions to nOC
ij and nSC
ij are estimated by taking equal-size
sideband invariant-mass regions about theZ-boson peak and
123

===== PAGE 23 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 23 of 40 639
Efficiency
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
εCharge BDT selection efficiency 
 Data
 MC
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
 [GeV]TE
40 60 80 100 120 140
Data / MC 
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
Efficiency
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
εCharge BDT selection efficiency 
 Data
 MC
 > 25 GeVTE
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Data / MC 
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
Fig. 14 Efﬁciency of applying the additional BDT selection criterion
to choose Medium-identiﬁed electrons reconstructed with the correct
charge, as evaluated inZ → ee events. The criterion is based on a BDT
discriminant optimised to select electrons with a correct charge assign-
ment with an efﬁciency of 97%. Top: vs.E
T; bottom: vs.η. Open points:
data; closed points: simulation; and lower panels: data-to-simulation
ratios. The uncertainties are smaller than the markers and hence not
visible
linearly interpolating to estimate the number of events under
the mass peak.
Systematic uncertainties associated with the Z-boson
mass window are evaluated by increasing and decreasing
its range. Systematic uncertainties from other sources are
evaluated by not performing the background subtraction, by
taking differences between probabilities in events where both
electrons ﬁred the trigger and probabilities in events where
only one electron ﬁred the trigger, and by comparing the
charge-misidentiﬁcation rates extracted using the likelihood
method with the rates extracted from a comparison with the
true charge as determined in simulation.
Figure 15 shows the charge-misidentiﬁcation rates in
data and simulation for Medium electrons in Z → ee
events as a function of E
T and |η|, demonstrating the
impact of applying the BDT requirement to suppress charge
misidentiﬁcation, as explained in Sect. 8.2. As expected,
the charge-misidentiﬁcation rates are larger at high E
T and
|η|. Two identiﬁcation operating points are also contrasted
showing the impact of using a Tight identiﬁcation require-
ment without the BDT requirement compared with using
Medium identiﬁcation but also including this BDT require-
ment.
The knowledge of electron charge-misidentiﬁcation rates
is crucial for the estimation of background from charge
misidentiﬁcation in measurements, e.g. in the observa-
tion of the electroweak W
±W± jj production [ 44]o rt h e
search for doubly charged Higgs boson production [ 45].
To account for disagreements between data and simula-
tion, data-to-simulation ratios, extracted from the efﬁcien-
cies described above, are provided as correction factors for
analyses to account for this mismodelling in the simula-
tion.
9 Usage of electron selections in physics measurements
Efﬁciencies for electron reconstruction, identiﬁcation, isola-
tion, and charge identiﬁcation are shown for several operat-
ing points in Sects. 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively. The prod-
uct of these efﬁciencies (and their corresponding data-to-
simulation correction factors) is relevant in physics mea-
surements. In this section, electron efﬁciencies for data
from a Z → ee sample are presented for the combination
ϵ
reco×ϵid×ϵiso (see Eq. (1)) for some typical operating points
used in ATLAS physics analyses. The results are shown in
Fig. 16 for the following operating points (listed as Identiﬁ-
cation + Isolation):
• Loose + Fix (Loose): used in cross-section measure-
ments of H → 4ℓ [46] and Standard Model ZZ pro-
duction [47],
• Medium + Gradient (Loose): used in searches for direct
top-squark-pair production in ﬁnal states with two lep-
tons [48] and to identify the Z-boson candidate in mea-
surements of Standard Model WZ production [49],
• Tight + Gradient: used in measurements of single-top-
quark production in association with aZ or W boson [50,
51] and Standard Model WW production [52],
123

===== PAGE 24 =====
639 Page 24 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
Charge misidentification probability
3−10
2−10
1−10
εData misidentification probability 
 Tight + Fix (Tight)
 Medium + Fix (Tight)
 Medium + Fix (Tight) + BDT
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 33.9 fbs
 [GeV]TE
50 100 150 200 250
Data / MC 
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
Charge misidentification probability
3−10
2−10
1−10
εData misidentification probability 
 Tight + Fix (Tight)
 Medium + Fix (Tight)
 Medium + Fix (Tight) + BDT
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 33.9 fbs
>25 GeVTE
|η|
0 0.5 1 1.5 22 . 5
Data / MC 
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
Fig. 15 Charge-misidentiﬁcation rates in 2016 data and simulated
Z → ee events as a function of ET (top) and |η| (bottom) showing the
impact of applying the BDT requirement to suppress charge misidentiﬁ-
cation (red squares vs. blue triangles). Medium identiﬁcation with BDT
vs. Tight identiﬁcation without BDT is also explored (black circles vs.
blue triangles). The Fix (Tight) isolation requirement is applied in all
cases (see Table4). The inner uncertainties are statistical while the total
uncertainties include both the statistical and systematic components
• Tight + Fix (Track Rmax = 0.4) used in cross-section
measurements of gluon–gluon fusion and vector-boson-
fusion Higgs-boson production in the H → WW ∗ →
eνμνdecay channel [53].
Efficiency
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
isoε×idε×recoεData efficiency 
 Loose + Fix (Loose)
 Medium + Gradient (Loose)
 Tight + Gradient
 = 0.4)max Tight + Fix (Track R
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
Data / MC 
0.9
1
1.1
 [GeV]TE
20 40 60 80 100 120 140
Uncertainty
4−10
3−10
2−10
 stat. unc. syst. unc.⊕ stat.
Efficiency
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
isoε×idε×recoεData efficiency 
 Loose + Fix (Loose)
 Medium + Gradient (Loose)
 Tight + Gradient
 = 0.4)max Tight + Fix (Track R
ATLAS
-1 = 13 TeV, 37.1 fbs
>4.5 GeVTE
Data / MC 
0.9
1
1.1
η
2.5− 2− 1.5− 1− 0.5− 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
Uncertainty
4−10
3−10
2−10
 stat. unc. syst. unc.⊕ stat.
Fig. 16 The product of reconstruction, identiﬁcation, and isolation
efﬁciencies ϵreco × ϵid × ϵiso for data from a Z → ee sample as a
function of electron ET (top) and η for ET > 4.5 GeV (bottom),
for the following operating points: “Loose + Fix (Loose)” (black
circles), “Medium + Gradient (Loose)” (yellow upside-down trian-
gles), “Tight + Gradient” (blue squares) and “Tight + Fix” (Track
R
max = 0.4) (red triangles). The inner uncertainties are statistical while
the total uncertainties include both the statistical and systematic com-
ponents. The lower panels show data-to-simulation ratios as well as
the relative statistical and total uncertainties (statistical and systematic
added in quadrature) applicable to both the data efﬁciencies and cor-
rection factors
123

===== PAGE 25 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 25 of 40 639
10 Conclusions
The focus of this paper is to document the methods used by
the ATLAS experiment at the LHC in Run 2 to reconstruct,
identify, and isolate prompt-electron candidates with high
efﬁciency, as well as to suppress electron-charge misidentiﬁ-
cation. Efﬁciency measurements as evaluated with 37.1 fb
−1
of 13 TeV pp collision data recorded in 2015–2016 are then
compared with those determined from simulation.
The method used to reconstruct electron candidates is
explained for candidates in the central region of the detector
(|η| < 2.47). Illustrative measurements of the reconstruc-
tion efﬁciency are presented for candidates with transverse
energy ET > 4.5G e V .F o rET > 15 GeV, the reconstruction
efﬁciencies range from 96 to 99%, with the data uncertain-
ties typically 1% for E
T = 15−20 GeV and reaching the
per-mille level at higher ET.
The likelihood method used to identify electrons given
the existence of a reconstructed electron candidate is also
explained for candidates in the central region of the detector
(|η| < 2.47). The minimum E
T of the identiﬁed electron is
reduced from 7 GeV in Run 1 to 4.5 GeV in Run 2. Bench-
mark efﬁciency measurements for three identiﬁcation oper-
ating points are provided: for the Tight operating point, the
identiﬁcation efﬁciency varies from 55% at E
T = 4.5G e V
to 90% at ET = 100 GeV, while it ranges from 85% at
ET = 20 GeV to 96% at ET = 100 GeV for the Loose oper-
ating point. The uncertainties in these measured efﬁciencies
for the Loose (Tight) operating point range from 3% (4%) at
ET = 4.5 GeV to 0.1% (0.3%) for ET = 40 GeV.
The ability to identify electron candidates isolated from
any other local activity in the detector is documented. Two
varieties of isolation variables, calorimeter- and tracking-
based, are considered. Since the implementation of isola-
tion criteria is speciﬁc to the physics analysis needs, several
operating points are illustrated; their typical isolation efﬁ-
ciencies are measured in data and determined from simula-
tion, ranging from approximately 90% for the tightest oper-
ating points to nearly 99% for the loosest, for electrons with
E
T = 40 GeV.
Possible sources of electron-charge misidentiﬁcation are
explored and an algorithm to suppress such effects is out-
lined. The efﬁciency for correct charge reconstruction is
illustrated for candidates passing the Medium identiﬁcation
requirements. The efﬁciency is approximately 96% in both
data and simulation and is mostly independent of E
T, while
it varies from 90 to 99% over most of the electron η region
except at very high|η| where the efﬁciency in data is approx-
imately 76%. The corresponding efﬁciency in simulation is
about 8% higher, due to mismodelling.
Finally, since total efﬁciencies are used in ATLAS physics
analyses, the product of the electron efﬁcienciesϵ
reco ×ϵid ×
ϵiso measured in data and presented in this paper for some typ-
ical operating points demonstrate the impact of these efﬁcien-
cies on ATLAS measurements and searches for new physics.
Acknowledgements We thank CERN for the very successful oper-
ation of the LHC, as well as the support staff from our institutions
without whom ATLAS could not be operated efﬁciently. We acknowl-
edge the support of ANPCyT, Argentina; YerPhI, Armenia; ARC,
Australia; BMWFW and FWF, Austria; ANAS, Azerbaijan; SSTC,
Belarus; CNPq and FAPESP, Brazil; NSERC, NRC and CFI, Canada;
CERN; CONICYT, Chile; CAS, MOST and NSFC, China; COLCIEN-
CIAS, Colombia; MSMT CR, MPO CR and VSC CR, Czech Repub-
lic; DNRF and DNSRC, Denmark; IN2P3-CNRS, CEA-DRF/IRFU,
France; SRNSFG, Georgia; BMBF, HGF, and MPG, Germany; GSRT,
Greece; RGC, Hong Kong SAR, China; ISF and Benoziyo Center,
Israel; INFN, Italy; MEXT and JSPS, Japan; CNRST, Morocco; NWO,
The Netherlands; RCN, Norway; MNiSW and NCN, Poland; FCT,
Portugal; MNE/IFA, Romania; MES of Russia and NRC KI, Rus-
sian Federation; JINR; MESTD, Serbia; MSSR, Slovakia; ARRS and
MIZŠ, Slovenia; DST/NRF, South Africa; MINECO, Spain; SRC and
Wallenberg Foundation, Sweden; SERI, SNSF and Cantons of Bern
and Geneva, Switzerland; MOST, Taiwan; TAEK, Turkey; STFC, UK;
DOE and NSF, USA. In addition, individual groups and members have
received support from BCKDF, CANARIE, CRC and Compute Canada,
Canada; COST, ERC, ERDF, Horizon 2020, and Marie Skłodowska-
Curie Actions, European Union; Investissements d’ Avenir Labex and
Idex, ANR, France; DFG and AvH Foundation, Germany; Herakleitos,
Thales and Aristeia programmes co-ﬁnanced by EU-ESF and the Greek
NSRF, Greece; BSF-NSF and GIF, Israel; CERCA Programme General-
itat de Catalunya, Spain; The Royal Society and Leverhulme Trust, UK.
The crucial computing support from all WLCG partners is acknowl-
edged gratefully, in particular from CERN, the ATLAS Tier-1 facili-
ties at TRIUMF (Canada), NDGF (Denmark, Norway, Sweden), CC-
IN2P3 (France), KIT/GridKA (Germany), INFN-CNAF (Italy), NL-
T1 (The Netherlands), PIC (Spain), ASGC (Taiwan), RAL (UK) and
BNL (USA), the Tier-2 facilities worldwide and large non-WLCG
resource providers. Major contributors of computing resources are listed
in Ref. [54].
Data A vailability Statement This manuscript has no associated data
or the data will not be deposited. [Authors’ comment: All ATLAS sci-
entiﬁc output is published in journals, and preliminary results are made
available in Conference Notes. All are openly available, without restric-
tion on use by external parties beyond copyright law and the standard
conditions agreed by CERN. Data associated with journal publications
are also made available: tables and data from plots (e.g. cross section
values, likelihood proﬁles, selection efﬁciencies, cross section limits,
...) are stored in appropriate repositories such as HEPDATA ( http://
hepdata.cedar.ac.uk/). ATLAS also strives to make additional material
related to the paper available that allows a reinterpretation of the data
in the context of new theoretical models. For example, an extended
encapsulation of the analysis is often provided for measurements in the
framework of RIVET (http://rivet.hepforge.org/).” This information is
taken from the ATLAS Data Access Policy, which is a public docu-
ment that can be downloaded from http://opendata.cern.ch/record/413
[opendata.cern.ch].]
Open Access This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License ( http://creativecomm
ons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution,
and reproduction in any medium, provided you give appropriate credit
to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons license, and indicate if changes were made.
Funded by SCOAP
3.
123

===== PAGE 26 =====
639 Page 26 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
References
1. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron performance measurements with
the ATLAS detector using the 2010 LHC proton–proton collision
data, Eur. Phys. J. C 72, 1909 (2012) arXiv:1110.3174 [hep-ex]
2. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron reconstruction and identiﬁcation
efﬁciency measurements with the ATLAS detector using the 2011
LHC proton–proton collision data, Eur. Phys. J. C74, 2941 (2014)
arXiv:1404.2240 [hep-ex]
3. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron efﬁciency measurements with the
ATLAS detector using 2012 LHC proton–proton collision data,
Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 195 (2017) arXiv:1612.01456 [hep-ex]
4. ATLAS Collaboration, Luminosity determination in pp collisions
at √
s = 8 TeV using the ATLAS detector at the LHC, Eur. Phys.
J. C 76, 653 (2016) arXiv:1608.03953 [hep-ex]
5. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Experiment at the CERN Large
Hadron Collider, JINST 3, S08003 (2008)
6. B. Abbott et al., Production and integration of the ATLAS
Insertable B-Layer. JINST 13, T05008 (2018). arXiv:1803.00844
[physics.ins-det]
7. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Insertable B-Layer Technical
Design Report, ATLAS-TDR-19, (2010), https://cds.cern.ch/
record/1291633, ATLAS Insertable B-Layer Technical Design
Report Addendum, ATLAS-TDR-19-ADD-1, (2012) https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1451888
8. P. Nason, A new method for combining NLO QCD with
shower Monte Carlo algorithms. JHEP 11, 040 (2004).
arXiv:hep-ph/0409146
9. S. Frixione, P. Nason, C. Oleari, Matching NLO QCD computations
with parton shower simulations: the POWHEG method. JHEP 11,
070 (2007). arXiv:0709.2092 [hep-ph]
10. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, A general framework for
implementing NLO calculations in shower Monte Carlo programs:
the POWHEG BOX. JHEP06, 043 (2010).arXiv:1002.2581 [hep-
ph]
11. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, NLO vector-boson produc-
tion matched with shower in POWHEG. JHEP 07, 060 (2008).
arXiv:0805.4802 [hep-ph]
12. S. Frixione, P. Nason, G. Ridolﬁ, A positive-weight next-to-
leading-order Monte Carlo for heavy ﬂavour hadroproduction.
JHEP 09, 126 (2007). arXiv:0707.3088 [hep-ph]
13. T. Sjöstrand, S. Mrenna, P.Z. Skands, A brief introduction
to PYTHIA 8.1. Comput. Phys. Commun. 178, 852 (2008).
arXiv:0710.3820 [hep-ph]
14. H.-L. Lai et al., New parton distributions for collider physics. Phys.
Rev. D 82, 074024 (2010). arXiv:1007.2241 [hep-ph]
15. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the Z/γ
∗ boson transverse
momentum distribution in pp collisions at √ s = 7 TeV with the
ATLAS detector, JHEP09, 145 (2014). arXiv:1406.3660 [hep-ex]
16. J. Pumplin et al., New generation of parton distributions with
uncertainties from global QCD analysis. JHEP 07, 012 (2002).
arXiv:hep-ph/0201195 [hep-ph]
17. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Pythia 8 tunes to 7 TeV
data, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2014-021 (2014). https://cdsweb.cern.ch/
record/1966419
18. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions with LHC data. Nucl. Phys. B
867, 244 (2013). arXiv:1207.1303 [hep-ph]
19. A.D. Martin, W.J. Stirling, R.S. Thorne, G. Watt, Parton distribu-
tions for the LHC. Eur. Phys. J. C63, 189 (2009).arXiv:0901.0002
[hep-ph]
20. S. Agostinelli et al., GEANT4–a simulation toolkit. Nucl. Instrum.
Meth. A 506, 250 (2003)
21. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Simulation Infrastructure, Eur.
Phys. J. C 70, 823 (2010). arXiv:1005.4568 [physics.ins-det]
22. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS trigger system
in 2015, Eur. Phys. J. C77, 317 (2017).arXiv:1611.09661 [hep-ex]
23. C. Blocker, Uncertainties on Efﬁciencies, CDF/MEMO/
STATISTICS/PUBLIC/7168. http://www-cdf.fnal.gov/physics/
statistics/notes/cdf7168_eff_uncertainties.ps
24. H1 Collaboration, Measurement of the inclusive ep scattering cross
section at low Q2 and x at HERA. Eur. Phys. J. C 63, 625 (2009).
arXiv:0904.0929 [hep-ex]
25. C. Patrignani et al., Review of particle physics. Chin. Phys. C 40,
100001 (2016)
26. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the difﬁerential cross-
sections of inclusive, prompt and non-prompt J/ψ production in
proton–proton collisions at √ s = 7 TeV , Nucl. Phys. B850, 387
(2011). arXiv:1104.3038 [hep-ex]
27. W. Lampl et al., Calorimeter clustering algorithms: description
and performance. ATL-LARG-PUB-2008-002 (2008).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1099735
28. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS track recon-
struction algorithms in dense environments in LHC Run 2, Eur.
P h y s .J .C77, 673 (2017). arXiv: 1704.07983 [hep-ex]
29. T. Cornelissen et al., The new ATLAS track reconstruction
(NEWT). J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 119, 032014 (2008)
30. T. Cornelissen et al., The global χ
2 track ﬁtter in ATLAS. J. Phys.
Conf. Ser. 119, 032013 (2008)
31. ATLAS Collaboration, Improved electron reconstruction in
ATLAS using the Gaussian Sum Filter-based model for
bremsstrahlung, ATLAS-CONF-2012-047 (2012). https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1449796
32. R. Frühwirth, A Gaussian-mixture approximation of the Bethe-
Heitler model of electron energy loss by bremsstrahlung. Comp.
Phys. Comm. 154, 131 (2003). ISSN: 0010-4655
33. R. Frühwirth, Application of Kalman ﬁltering to track and vertex
ﬁtting. Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 262, 444 (1987)
34. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the photon identiﬁcation
efﬁciencies with the ATLAS detector using LHC Run 2 data col-
lected in 2015 and 2016. Eur. Phys. J. C 79, 205 (2019). https://
doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-6650-6
35. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron and photon energy calibration with
the ATLAS detector using LHC Run 1 data. Eur. Phys. J. C74, 3071
(2014). arXiv:1407.5063 [hep-ex]
36. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron and photon energy calibration
with the ATLAS detector using 2015–2016 LHC proton–proton
collision data. JINST 14, P03017 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1088/
1748-0221/14/03/P03017
37. A. Hoecker et al., TMV A: Toolkit for Multivariate Data Analy-
sis, PoS ACAT 040 (2007). arXiv:physics/0703039, http://tmva.
sourceforge.net/
38. ATLAS Collaboration, Topological cell clustering in the ATLAS
calorimeters and its performance in LHC Run 1. Eur. Phys. J. C
77, 490 (2017). arXiv:1603.02934 [hep-ex]
39. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, Pileup subtraction using jet areas. Phys.
Lett. B 659, 119 (2008). arXiv:0707.1378 [hep-ph]
40. S.D. Ellis, D.E. Soper, Successive combination jet algo-
rithm for hadron collisions. Phys. Rev. D 48, 3160 (1993).
arXiv:hep-ph/9305266 [hep-ph]
41. S. Catani, Y .L. Dokshitzer, M.H. Seymour, B.R. Webber, Longitu-
dinally invariant K
t clustering algorithms for hadron hadron colli-
sions. Nucl. Phys. B 406, 187 (1993)
42. ATLAS Collaboration, Search for supersymmetry in ﬁnal states
with two same-sign or three leptons and jets using 36 fb−1 of √ s =
13 TeV pp collision data with the ATLAS detector. JHEP 09, 084
(2017). arXiv:1706.03731 [hep-ex]
43. ATLAS Collaboration, Evidence for the associated production of
the Higgs boson and a top quark pair with the ATLAS detector.
P h y s .R e v .D .97, 072003 (2018). arXiv: 1712.08891 [hep-ex]
123

===== PAGE 27 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 27 of 40 639
44. ATLAS Collaboration, Observation of electroweak production of
a same-sign W boson pair in association with two jets in pp colli-
sions at √
s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C
79 535 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-7027-6
45. ATLAS Collaboration, Search for doubly charged Higgs boson pro-
duction in multi-lepton ﬁnal states with the ATLAS detector using
proton–proton collisions at √
s = 13 TeV . Eur. Phys. J. C78, 199
(2018). arXiv:1710.09748 [hep-ex]
46. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of inclusive and difﬁeren-
tial cross sections in the H → ZZ ∗ → 4ℓ decay channel in pp
collisions at √ s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. JHEP 10,
132(2017). arXiv:1708.02810 [hep-ex]
47. ATLAS Collaboration, ZZ → ℓ+ℓ− ℓ′+ℓ′− cross-section mea-
surements and search for anomalous triple gauge couplings in
13 TeV pp collisions with the ATLAS detector. Phys. Rev. D 97,
032005 (2018). arXiv:1709.07703 [hep-ex]
48. ATLAS Collaboration, Search for direct top squark pair produc-
tion in ﬁnal states with two leptons in √ s = 13 TeV pp colli-
sions with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 898 (2017).
arXiv:1708.03247 [hep-ex]
49. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of W± Z production cross
sections and gauge boson polarisation in pp collisions at√ s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 79, 535
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-019-7027-6
50. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of difﬁerential cross-sections
of a single top quark produced in association with a W boson
at √
s = 13 TeV with ATLAS. Eur. Phys. J. C 78, 186 (2018).
arXiv:1712.01602 [hep-ex]
51. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the production cross-
section of a single top quark in association with a Z boson in
proton–proton collisions at 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Phys.
Lett. B 780, 557 (2018). arXiv:1905.04242 [hep-ex]
52. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of ﬁducial and differen-
tial W
+ W− production cross-sections at √ s =13 TeV with the
ATLAS detector (2019). arXiv:1905.04242 [hep-ex]
53. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurements of gluon-gluon fusion and
vector-boson fusion Higgs bosonproduction cross-sections in the
H → WW ∗ → eνμνdecay channel in pp collisions at √ s = 13
TeV with the ATLAS detector (2018).arXiv:1808.09054 [hep-ex]
54. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS computing acknowledgements,
ATL-GEN-PUB-2016-002. https://cds.cern.ch/record/2202407
ATLAS Collaboration
M. Aaboud34d,G . A a d 99, B. Abbott 125, D. C. Abbott 100, O. Abdinov 13,*, B. Abeloos 129, D. K. Abhayasinghe 91,
S. H. Abidi164, O. S. AbouZeid39, N. L. Abraham153, H. Abramowicz158, H. Abreu157, Y . Abulaiti6, B. S. Acharya64a,64b,p,
S. Adachi160, L. Adam 97, L. Adamczyk 81a, L. Adamek 164, J. Adelman 119, M. Adersberger 112, A. Adiguzel 12c,ai,
T. Adye141, A. A. Affolder 143,Y . A ﬁ k157, C. Agheorghiesei 27c, J. A. Aguilar-Saavedra 137a,137f,ah, F. Ahmadov 77,af,
G. Aielli71a,71b, S. Akatsuka 83, T .P .A .Å k e s s o n94, E. Akilli 52,A . V . A k i m o v108, G. L. Alberghi 23a,23b, J. Albert 173,
P. Albicocco49, M. J. Alconada Verzini 86, S. Alderweireldt 117, M. Aleksa 35, I. N. Aleksandrov 77,C . A l e x a27b,
D. Alexandre19, T. Alexopoulos 10, M. Alhroob 125,B . A l i139, G. Alimonti 66a, J. Alison 36, S .P .A l k i r e145, C. Allaire 129,
B. M. M. Allbrooke153, B .W .A l l e n128, P .P .A l l p o r t21, A. Aloisio 67a,67b, A. Alonso 39, F. Alonso 86, C. Alpigiani 145,
A. A. Alshehri55, M. I. Alstaty 99, B. Alvarez Gonzalez 35, D. Álvarez Piqueras 171, M. G. Alviggi 67a,67b, B .T .A m a d i o18,
Y . Amaral Coutinho78b, A. Ambler 101, L. Ambroz 132, C. Amelung 26, D. Amidei 103, S. P. Amor Dos Santos 137a,137c,
S. Amoroso44, C. S. Amrouche 52,F . A n 76, C. Anastopoulos 146, L. S. Ancu 52, N. Andari 142, T. Andeen 11,
C. F. Anders59b, J. K. Anders 20, K .J .A n d e r s o n36, A. Andreazza 66a,66b, V . Andrei59a, C. R. Anelli 173, S. Angelidakis 37,
I. Angelozzi118, A. Angerami 38, A. V . Anisenkov120a,120b, A. Annovi 69a, C. Antel 59a, M. T. Anthony146, M. Antonelli 49,
D. J. A. Antrim168, F. Anulli 70a, M. Aoki 79, J. A. Aparisi Pozo 171, L. Aperio Bella 35, G. Arabidze 104, J. P. Araque 137a,
V . Araujo Ferraz78b, R. Araujo Pereira78b,A .T .H .A r c e47, R. E. Ardell91, F. A. Arduh86, J-F. Arguin107, S. Argyropoulos75,
J.-H. Arling44, A .J .A r m b r u s t e r35, L .J .A r m i t a g e90, A. Armstrong 168, O. Arnaez 164, H. Arnold 118, M. Arratia 31,
O. Arslan24, A. Artamonov 109,*, G. Artoni 132,S . A r t z 97,S . A s a i 160, N. Asbah 57, E. M. Asimakopoulou 169,
L. Asquith153, K. Assamagan 29, R. Astalos 28a, R .J .A t k i n32a, M. Atkinson 170, N .B .A t l a y148, K. Augsten 139,
G. Avolio35, R. Avramidou 58a, M. K. Ayoub 15a, A. M. Azoulay 165b, G. Azuelos 107,av, A. E. Baas 59a, M. J. Baca 21,
H. Bachacou142, K. Bachas 65a,65b, M. Backes 132, P. Bagnaia 70a,70b, M. Bahmani 82, H. Bahrasemani 149, A .J .B a i l e y171,
V . R. Bailey170, J. T. Baines141, M. Bajic39, C. Bakalis10,O .K .B a k e r180, P. J. Bakker118, D. Bakshi Gupta 8, S. Balaji154,
E. M. Baldin120a,120b, P. Balek 177, F. Balli 142, W. K. Balunas 134,J . B a l z 97, E. Banas 82, A. Bandyopadhyay 24,
S. Banerjee178,l, A. A. E. Bannoura 179, L. Barak 158, W .M .B a r b e37, E. L. Barberio 102, D. Barberis 53a,53b, M. Barbero 99,
T. Barillari113, M-S. Barisits 35,J . B a r k e l o o128, T. Barklow 150, R. Barnea 157, S. L. Barnes 58c, B. M. Barnett 141,
R. M. Barnett18, Z. Barnovska-Blenessy 58a, A. Baroncelli 72a, G. Barone 29, A .J .B a r r132, L. Barranco Navarro 171,
F. Barreiro96, J. Barreiro Guimarães da Costa 15a, R. Bartoldus 150, A .E .B a r t o n87,P . B a r t o s28a, A. Basalaev 135,
A. Bassalat129, R. L. Bates 55, S. J. Batista 164, S. Batlamous 34e, J .R .B a t l e y31, M. Battaglia 143, M. Bauce 70a,70b,
F. Bauer142, K. T. Bauer 168, H .S .B a w a 150, J. B. Beacham 123, T. Beau 133, P. H. Beauchemin 167, P. Bechtle 24,
H. C. Beck51, H. P. Beck20,s, K. Becker 50, M. Becker 97, C. Becot 44, A. Beddall 12d, A. J. Beddall 12a, V . A. Bednyakov77,
M. Bedognetti118,C . P . B e e152, T. A. Beermann74, M. Begalli 78b, M. Begel 29, A. Behera 152, J. K. Behr 44, F. Beisiegel24,
A. S. Bell92, G. Bella158, L. Bellagamba23b, A. Bellerive33, M. Bellomo157, P. Bellos9, K. Belotskiy110, N. L. Belyaev110,
O. Benary158,*, D. Benchekroun34a, M. Bender112, N. Benekos10, Y . Benhammou158, E. Benhar Noccioli180, J. Benitez75,
123

===== PAGE 28 =====
639 Page 28 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
D. P. Benjamin6, M. Benoit 52, J. R. Bensinger 26, S. Bentvelsen 118, L. Beresford 132, M. Beretta 49, D. Berge 44,
E. Bergeaas Kuutmann169, N. Berger 5, B. Bergmann 139, L. J. Bergsten 26, J. Beringer 18, S. Berlendis 7, N. R. Bernard 100,
G. Bernardi133, C. Bernius150, F. U. Bernlochner24,T .B e r r y91,P .B e r t a97, C. Bertella15a, G. Bertoli43a,43b, I. A. Bertram87,
G. J. Besjes39, O. Bessidskaia Bylund 179, M. Bessner 44, N. Besson 142, A. Bethani 98, S. Bethke 113, A. Betti 24,
A. J. Bevan90, J. Beyer 113,R . B i136, R. M. Bianchi 136, O. Biebel 112, D. Biedermann 19, R. Bielski 35, K. Bierwagen 97,
N. V . Biesuz69a,69b, M. Biglietti 72a, T .R .V .B i l l o u d107, M. Bindi 51, A. Bingul 12d,C . B i n i70a,70b, S. Biondi 23a,23b,
M. Birman177, T. Bisanz51,J . P . B i s w a l158, C. Bittrich 46, D. M. Bjergaard 47, J. E. Black 150, K. M. Black 25, T. Blazek28a,
I. Bloch44, C. Blocker 26,A . B l u e55, U. Blumenschein 90, Dr. Blunier 144a, G. J. Bobbink 118, V . S. Bobrovnikov120a,120b,
S. S. Bocchetta94, A. Bocci 47, D. Boerner 179, D. Bogavac 112, A. G. Bogdanchikov 120a,120b, C. Bohm 43a, V . Boisvert91,
P. Bokan169,T .B o l d81a, A. S. Boldyrev111,A .E .B o l z59b, M. Bomben133, M. Bona90, J. S. Bonilla128, M. Boonekamp142,
H. M. Borecka-Bielska88,A . B o r i s o v121, G. Borissov 87, J. Bortfeldt 35, D. Bortoletto 132, V . Bortolotto 71a,71b,
D. Boscherini23b,M . B o s m a n14, J .D .B o s s i oS o l a30, K. Bouaouda 34a, J. Boudreau 136, E. V . Bouhova-Thacker 87,
D. Boumediene37, C. Bourdarios 129, S. K. Boutle 55, A. Boveia 123,J . B o y d35,D . B o y e32b, I .R .B o y k o77, A. J. Bozson 91,
J. Bracinik21, N. Brahimi99, A. Brandt8, G. Brandt179, O. Brandt59a,F .B r a r e n44, U. Bratzler161,B .B r a u100,J .E .B r a u128,
W. D. Breaden Madden55, K. Brendlinger44, L. Brenner44, R. Brenner169, S. Bressler177, B. Brickwedde97, D. L. Briglin21,
D. Britton55, D. Britzger 113, I. Brock 24, R. Brock 104, G. Brooijmans 38, T. Brooks 91, W. K. Brooks 144b, E. Brost 119,
J. H. Broughton21, P. A. Bruckman de Renstrom82, D. Bruncko28b, A. Bruni23b, G. Bruni23b,L .S .B r u n i118, S. Bruno71a,71b,
B. H. Brunt31, M. Bruschi 23b,N . B r u s c i n o136, P. Bryant 36, L. Bryngemark 94, T. Buanes 17, Q. Buat 35, P. Buchholz 148,
A. G. Buckley55, I. A. Budagov77, M. K. Bugge 131, F. Bührer50, O. Bulekov110, D. Bullock 8,T .J .B u r c h119, S. Burdin 88,
C. D. Burgard118, A. M. Burger 5, B. Burghgrave 119, K. Burka 82,S . B u r k e141, I. Burmeister 45,J . T . P . B u r r132,
V . Büscher97, E. Buschmann51, P. Bussey55,J .M .B u t l e r25,C .M .B u t t a r55, J. M. Butterworth92, P. Butti35, W. Buttinger35,
A. Buzatu155, A. R. Buzykaev120a,120b, G. Cabras 23a,23b, S. Cabrera Urbán 171, D. Caforio 139,H . C a i170, V .M .M .C a i r o2,
O. Cakir4a, N. Calace 35, P. Calaﬁura 18, A. Calandri 99, G. Calderini 133, P. Calfayan 63, G. Callea 55, L. P. Caloba 78b,
S. Calvente Lopez96,D . C a l v e t37,S . C a l v e t37,T . P . C a l v e t152, M. Calvetti 69a,69b, R. Camacho Toro 133, S. Camarda 35,
D. Camarero Munoz96, P. Camarri 71a,71b, D. Cameron 131, R. Caminal Armadans 100, C. Camincher 35, S. Campana 35,
M. Campanelli92, A. Camplani 39, A. Campoverde 148, V . Canale 67a,67b, M. Cano Bret 58c, J. Cantero 126,T . C a o158,
Y. C a o170, M. D. M. Capeans Garrido 35, I. Caprini27b, M. Caprini27b, M. Capua40b,40a, R. M. Carbone38, R. Cardarelli71a,
F. C. Cardillo146,I . C a r l i140,T . C a r l i35, G. Carlino 67a, B. T. Carlson 136, L. Carminati 66a,66b, R .M .D .C a r n e y43a,43b,
S. Caron117, E. Carquin 144b,S . C a r r á66a,66b, J .W .S .C a r t e r164, D. Casadei 32b, M. P. Casado 14,g, A. F. Casha 164,
D. W. Casper168, R. Castelijn 118, F. L. Castillo 171, V . Castillo Gimenez 171,N . F . C a s t r o137a,137e, A. Catinaccio 35,
J. R. Catmore131, A. Cattai 35, J. Caudron 24, V . Cavaliere 29, E. Cavallaro 14, D. Cavalli 66a, M. Cavalli-Sforza 14,
V . Cavasinni69a,69b, E. Celebi12b, F. Ceradini72a,72b, L. Cerda Alberich171, A. S. Cerqueira78a,A .C e r r i153, L. Cerrito71a,71b,
F. Cerutti18, A. Cervelli 23a,23b, S .A .C e t i n12b, A. Chafaq 34a, D. Chakraborty 119, S. K. Chan 57, W. S. Chan 118,
J. D. Chapman31, B. Chargeishvili 156b, D. G. Charlton 21, C. C. Chau 33, C. A. Chavez Barajas 153,S . C h e 123,
A. Chegwidden104, S. Chekanov6, S. V . Chekulaev165a,G .A .C h e l k o v77,au,M .A .C h e l s t o w s k a35, B. Chen76, C. Chen58a,
C. H. Chen76, H. Chen 29, J. Chen 58a, J. Chen 38, S. Chen 134, S. J. Chen 15c, X. Chen 15b,at, Y . Chen80, Y-H. Chen 44,
H. C. Cheng61a, H. J. Cheng 15d, A. Cheplakov 77, E. Cheremushkina 121, R. Cherkaoui El Moursli 34e, E. Cheu 7,
K. Cheung62,T .J .A .C h e v a l é r i a s142, L. Chevalier142, V . Chiarella49, G. Chiarelli69a, G. Chiodini65a, A. S. Chisholm35,21,
A. Chitan27b,I . C h i u160,Y . H . C h i u173, M. V . Chizhov77, K. Choi 63, A. R. Chomont 129, S. Chouridou 159,Y . S . C h o w118,
V . Christodoulou92,M . C . C h u61a, J. Chudoba 138, A. J. Chuinard 101, J. J. Chwastowski 82,L . C h y t k a127, D. Cinca 45,
V . Cindro89, I .A .C i o a r ˘a24, A. Ciocio 18, F. Cirotto 67a,67b, Z. H. Citron 177, M. Citterio 66a,A . C l a r k52, M .R .C l a r k38,
P. J. Clark48, C. Clement 43a,43b, Y . Coadou 99, M. Cobal 64a,64c, A. Coccaro 53a,53b, J. Cochran 76, H. Cohen 158,
A. E. C. Coimbra177, L. Colasurdo 117,B . C o l e38, A. P. Colijn 118, J. Collot 56, P. Conde Muiño 137a,i, E. Coniavitis 50,
S. H. Connell32b, I. A. Connelly 98, S. Constantinescu 27b, F. Conventi 67a,aw, A. M. Cooper-Sarkar 132, F. Cormier 172,
K. J. R. Cormier164, L. D. Corpe 92, M. Corradi 70a,70b, E .E .C o r r i g a n94, F. Corriveau 101,ad, A. Cortes-Gonzalez 35,
M. J. Costa171, F. Costanza 5, D. Costanzo 146, G. Cottin 31,G . C o w a n91,B . E . C o x98, J. Crane 98, K. Cranmer 122,
S. J. Crawley55, R. A. Creager 134,G . C r e e33, S. Crépé-Renaudin 56, F. Crescioli 133, M. Cristinziani 24, V . Croft 122,
G. Crosetti40b,40a, A. Cueto 96, T. Cuhadar Donszelmann 146, A. R. Cukierman 150, S. Czekierda 82, P. Czodrowski 35,
M. J. Da Cunha Sargedas De Sousa58b,C .D aV i a98, W. Dabrowski81a, T. Dado28a,y, S. Dahbi34e,T .D a i103, F. Dallaire107,
C. Dallapiccola100,M . D a m 39,G . D ’ a m e n23a,23b,J . D a m p 97, J. R. Dandoy 134, M. F. Daneri 30, N. P. Dang 178,l,
N. D. Dann98, M. Danninger 172,V . D a o35, G. Darbo 53b,S . D a r m o r a8,O . D a r t s i5, A. Dattagupta 128, T. Daubney 44,
S. D’Auria66a,66b, W. Davey 24,C . D a v i d44, T. Davidek 140,D . R . D a v i s47,E . D a w e102,I . D a w s o n146,K . D e 8,
R. De Asmundis67a, A. De Benedetti 125, M. De Beurs 118,S . D e C a s t r o23a,23b, S. De Cecco 70a,70b, N. De Groot 117,
123

===== PAGE 29 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 29 of 40 639
P. de Jong118,H .D el aT o r r e104, F. De Lorenzi76,A .D eM a r i a69a,69b, D. De Pedis70a, A. De Salvo70a, U. De Sanctis71a,71b,
M. De Santis71a,71b, A. De Santo 153, K. De Vasconcelos Corga 99, J .B .D eV i v i eD eR e g i e129, C. Debenedetti 143,
D. V . Dedovich77, N. Dehghanian 3, M. Del Gaudio 40b,40a, J. Del Peso 96, Y . Delabat Diaz44, D. Delgove 129, F. Deliot 142,
C. M. Delitzsch7, M. Della Pietra 67a,67b, D. Della V olpe 52, A. Dell’Acqua 35, L. Dell’Asta 25,M . D e l m a s t r o5,
C. Delporte129,P . A . D e l s a r t56, D. A. DeMarco 164, S. Demers 180, M. Demichev 77, S. P. Denisov 121, D. Denysiuk 118,
L. D’Eramo133, D. Derendarz 82, J. E. Derkaoui 34d, F. Derue 133,P . D e r v a n88, K. Desch 24, C. Deterre 44, K. Dette 164,
M. R. Devesa30,P .O .D e v i v e i r o s35, A. Dewhurst141, S. Dhaliwal26,F .A .D iB e l l o52, A. Di Ciaccio71a,71b, L. Di Ciaccio5,
W. K. Di Clemente134, C. Di Donato 67a,67b,A .D iG i r o l a m o35,G .D iG r e g o r i o69a,69b, B. Di Micco 72a,72b, R. Di Nardo 100,
K. F. Di Petrillo57, R .D iS i p i o164, D. Di Valentino 33, C. Diaconu 99, M. Diamond 164,F . A . D i a s39,T . D i a s D o V a l e137a,
M. A. Diaz144a, J. Dickinson 18, E. B. Diehl 103, J. Dietrich 19, S. Díez Cornell 44, A. Dimitrievska 18, J. Dingfelder 24,
F. Dittus35,F . D j a m a99, T. Djobava 156b, J. I. Djuvsland 59a, M .A .B .D oV a l e78c, M. Dobre 27b, D. Dodsworth 26,
C. Doglioni94, J. Dolejsi 140, Z. Dolezal 140, M. Donadelli 78d, J. Donini 37, A. D’onofrio 90, M. D’Onofrio 88, J. Dopke 141,
A. Doria67a, M .T .D o v a86,A . T . D o y l e55, E. Drechsler 149, E. Dreyer 149, T. Dreyer 51,Y . D u 58b, F. Dubinin 108,
M. Dubovsky28a, A. Dubreuil 52, E. Duchovni 177, G. Duckeck 112, A. Ducourthial 133, O. A. Ducu 107,x, D. Duda 113,
A. Dudarev35, A. C. Dudder 97, E. M. Dufﬁeld 18, L. Duﬂot 129, M. Dührssen 35,C . D ü l s e n179, M. Dumancic 177,
A. E. Dumitriu27b,e, A. K. Duncan 55, M. Dunford 59a, A. Duperrin 99, H. Duran Yildiz 4a, M. Düren 54, A. Durglishvili 156b,
D. Duschinger46, B. Dutta 44, D. Duvnjak 1, M. Dyndal 44, S. Dysch 98, B. S. Dziedzic 82, K .M .E c k e r113, R. C. Edgar 103,
T. Eifert35, G. Eigen 17, K. Einsweiler 18,T . E k e l o f169, M. El Kacimi 34c, R. El Kosseiﬁ 99, V . Ellajosyula99, M. Ellert 169,
F. Ellinghaus179, A. A. Elliot 90, N. Ellis 35, J. Elmsheuser 29, M. Elsing 35, D. Emeliyanov 141,A . E m e r m a n38,
Y . Enari160, J .S .E n n i s175, M. B. Epland 47, J. Erdmann 45, A. Ereditato 20, S. Errede 170, M. Escalier 129, C. Escobar 171,
O. Estrada Pastor171, A .I .E t i e n v r e142, E. Etzion 158, H. Evans 63, A. Ezhilov 135, M. Ezzi 34e, F. Fabbri55, L. Fabbri 23a,23b,
V . Fabiani117, G. Facini 92, R. M. Faisca Rodrigues Pereira 137a, R. M. Fakhrutdinov 121, S. Falciano 70a,P . J . F a l k e5,
S. Falke5, J. Faltova 140, Y . Fang 15a, M. Fanti 66a,66b, A. Farbin 8, A. Farilla 72a, E .M .F a r i n a68a,68b, T. Farooque 104,
S. Farrell18, S. M. Farrington 175, P. Farthouat 35, F. Fassi 34e, P. Fassnacht 35, D. Fassouliotis 9, M. Faucci Giannelli 48,
A. Favareto53a,53b, W. J. Fawcett 31, L. Fayard 129, O. L. Fedin 135,q, W. Fedorko 172, M. Feickert 41, S. Feigl 131,
L. Feligioni99, C. Feng 58b, E. J. Feng 35, M. Feng 47, M. J. Fenton 55, A. B. Fenyuk 121, L. Feremenga 8, J. Ferrando 44,
A. Ferrari169, P. Ferrari118, R. Ferrari68a, D. E. Ferreira de Lima 59b, A. Ferrer171, D. Ferrere52, C. Ferretti103, F. Fiedler97,
A. Filipˇciˇc89, F. Filthaut 117, K. D. Finelli 25, M .C .N .F i o l h a i s137a,137c,a,L . F i o r i n i171, C. Fischer 14, W. C. Fisher 104,
N. Flaschel44, I. Fleck 148, P. Fleischmann 103, R. R. M. Fletcher 134, T. Flick 179, B. M. Flierl 112,L . M . F l o r e s134,
L. R. Flores Castillo61a, F. M. Follega 73a,73b,N . F o m i n17, G. T. Forcolin 73a,73b, A. Formica 142, F .A .F ö r s t e r14,
A. C. Forti98, A .G .F o s t e r21, D. Fournier 129,H . F o x 87, S. Fracchia 146, P. Francavilla 69a,69b, M. Franchini 23a,23b,
S. Franchino59a, D. Francis35, L. Franconi143, M. Franklin57,M .F r a t e168, M. Fraternali68a,68b,A .N .F r a y90, D. Freeborn92,
B. Freund107, W. S. Freund 78b, E. M. Freundlich 45, D. C. Frizzell 125, D. Froidevaux 35, J .A .F r o s t132, C. Fukunaga 161,
E. Fullana Torregrosa171, T. Fusayasu 114, J. Fuster 171, O. Gabizon 157, A. Gabrielli 23a,23b, A. Gabrielli 18, G. P. Gach 81a,
S. Gadatsch52, P. Gadow 113, G. Gagliardi 53a,53b, L. G. Gagnon 107, C. Galea 27b, B. Galhardo 137a,137c, E .J .G a l l a s132,
B. J. Gallop141, P. Gallus 139, G. Galster 39, R. Gamboa Goni 90, K .K .G a n123, S. Ganguly 177,J . G a o58a,Y . G a o88,
Y. S . G a o150,n, C. García 171, J. E. García Navarro 171, J. A. García Pascual 15a, M. Garcia-Sciveres 18, R. W. Gardner 36,
N. Garelli150, S. Gargiulo 50, V . Garonne 131, K. Gasnikova 44, A. Gaudiello 53a,53b, G. Gaudio 68a, I .L .G a v r i l e n k o108,
A. Gavrilyuk109,C . G a y172, G. Gaycken 24, E .N .G a z i s10, C .N .P .G e e141,J . G e i s e n51,M . G e i s e n97, M. P. Geisler 59a,
C. Gemme53b, M. H. Genest 56, C. Geng 103, S. Gentile 70a,70b, S. George 91, D. Gerbaudo 14, G. Gessner 45, S. Ghasemi 148,
M. Ghasemi Bostanabad173, M. Ghneimat 24, B. Giacobbe 23b, S. Giagu 70a,70b, N. Giangiacomi 23a,23b, P. Giannetti 69a,
A. Giannini67a,67b,S . M . G i b s o n91, M. Gignac 143, D. Gillberg 33, G. Gilles 179, D .M .G i n g r i c h3,av, M. P. Giordani64a,64c,
F. M. Giorgi23b, P .F .G i r a u d142, P. Giromini 57, G. Giugliarelli 64a,64c, D. Giugni 66a, F. Giuli 132, M. Giulini 59b,
S. Gkaitatzis159, I. Gkialas 9,k, E. L. Gkougkousis 14, P. Gkountoumis 10, L. K. Gladilin 111,C . G l a s m a n96, J. Glatzer 14,
P. C. F. Glaysher44, A. Glazov 44, M. Goblirsch-Kolb 26, J. Godlewski 82, S. Goldfarb 102, T. Golling 52, D. Golubkov 121,
A. Gomes137a,137b, R. Goncalves Gama 51, R. Gonçalo 137a, G. Gonella 50, L. Gonella 21, A. Gongadze 77, F. Gonnella 21,
J. L. Gonski57, S. González de la Hoz 171, S. Gonzalez-Sevilla 52, L. Goossens 35, P. A. Gorbounov 109, H. A. Gordon 29,
B. Gorini35,E . G o r i n i65a,65b, A. Gorišek 89, A. T. Goshaw 47, C. Gössling 45, M .I .G o s t k i n77, C. A. Gottardo 24,
C. R. Goudet129, D. Goujdami 34c, A .G .G o u s s i o u145, N. Govender 32b,c,C . G o y5, E. Gozani 157, I. Grabowska-Bold 81a,
P. O. J. Gradin169, E. C. Graham 88, J. Gramling 168,E . G r a m s t a d131, S. Grancagnolo 19, V . Gratchev135,P . M . G r a v i l a27f,
F. G. Gravili65a,65b,C . G r a y55, H .M .G r a y18, Z. D. Greenwood 93,al,C . G r e f e24, K. Gregersen 94, I .M .G r e g o r44,
P. Grenier150,K . G r e v t s o v44, N. A. Grieser 125,J . G r i f ﬁ t h s8, A. A. Grillo 143,K . G r i m m150,b, S. Grinstein 14,z,
Ph. Gris37,J . - F . G r i v a z129,S . G r o h97, E. Gross 177, J. Grosse-Knetter 51, G. C. Grossi 93, Z .J .G r o u t92,C . G r u d103,
123

===== PAGE 30 =====
639 Page 30 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
A. Grummer116, L. Guan 103, W. Guan 178, J. Guenther 35, A. Guerguichon 129, F. Guescini 165a, D. Guest 168, R. Gugel 50,
B. Gui123, T. Guillemin 5, S. Guindon 35,U . G u l 55,J . G u o 58c,W . G u o 103,Y . G u o 58a,t,Z . G u o 99, R. Gupta 44,
S. Gurbuz12c, G. Gustavino 125, P. Gutierrez 125, C. Gutschow 92, C. Guyot 142, M. P. Guzik 81a, C. Gwenlan 132,
C. B. Gwilliam88, A. Haas122, C. Haber18, H. K. Hadavand8, N. Haddad34e, A. Hadef58a, S. Hageböck24, M. Hagihara166,
H. Hakobyan181,*, M. Haleem 174,J . H a l e y126, G. Halladjian 104, G. D. Hallewell 99, K. Hamacher 179, P. Hamal 127,
K. Hamano173, A. Hamilton 32a, G .N .H a m i t y146,K . H a n58a,ak,L . H a n58a,S . H a n15d, K. Hanagaki 79,v, M. Hance 143,
D. M. Handl112, B. Haney134, R. Hankache133, P. Hanke59a, E. Hansen94, J. B. Hansen39, J. D. Hansen39, M. C. Hansen24,
P. H. Hansen39,K . H a r a166,A . S . H a r d178, T. Harenberg 179, S. Harkusha 105, P .F .H a r r i s o n175, N. M. Hartmann 112,
Y. H a s eg aw a147,A . H a s i b48, S. Hassani 142, S. Haug 20, R. Hauser 104, L. Hauswald 46, L. B. Havener 38, M. Havranek 139,
C. M. Hawkes21, R. J. Hawkings 35, D. Hayden 104, C. Hayes 152, C. P. Hays 132, J .M .H a y s90, H. S. Hayward 88,
S. J. Haywood141,F . H e 58a, M. P. Heath 48, V . Hedberg 94, L. Heelan 8, S. Heer 24, K. K. Heidegger 50, J. Heilman 33,
S. Heim44,T . H e i m18, B. Heinemann 44,aq, J. J. Heinrich 112, L. Heinrich 122, C. Heinz 54, J. Hejbal 138, L. Helary 35,
A. Held172, S. Hellesund 131, C. M. Helling 143, S. Hellman 43a,43b, C. Helsens 35, R. C. W. Henderson 87, Y . Heng 178,
S. Henkelmann172, A. M. Henriques Correia 35, G. H. Herbert 19, H. Herde 26, V . Herget 174, Y . Hernández Jiménez 32c,
H. Herr97, M .G .H e r r m a n n112, T. Herrmann 46,G . H e r t e n50, R. Hertenberger 112,L . H e r v a s35,T . C . H e r w i g134,
G. G. Hesketh92, N. P. Hessey165a, A. Higashida 160, S. Higashino 79, E. Higón-Rodriguez 171, K. Hildebrand 36, E. Hill 173,
J. C. Hill31, K .K .H i l l29, K. H. Hiller 44, S. J. Hillier 21, M. Hils 46, I. Hinchliffe 18, F. Hinterkeuser 24,M . H i r o s e130,
D. Hirschbuehl179, B. Hiti 89, O. Hladik 138, D .R .H l a l u k u32c, X. Hoad 48, J. Hobbs 152,N . H o d165a, M. C. Hodgkinson 146,
A. Hoecker35, M. R. Hoeferkamp 116, F. Hoenig 112, D. Hohn 50, D. Hohov 129, T .R .H o l m e s36, M. Holzbock 112,
M. Homann45, B .H .H o m m e l s31, S. Honda 166, T. Honda 79, T .M .H o n g136, A. Hönle 113, B. H. Hooberman 170,
W. H. Hopkins128,Y . H o r i i115,P . H o r n46, A .J .H o r t o n149, L .A .H o r y n36, J-Y . Hostachy56, A. Hostiuc 145,S . H o u155,
A. Hoummada34a,J .H o w a r t h98,J .H o y a86, M. Hrabovsky127,I .H r i s t o v a19, J. Hrivnac129, A. Hrynevich106, T. Hryn’ova5,
P. J. Hsu62,S . - C . H s u145,Q . H u29,S . H u58c, Y . Huang15a, Z. Hubacek 139, F. Hubaut 99, M. Huebner 24, F. Huegging 24,
T. B. Huffman132, M. Huhtinen35, R. F. H. Hunter33,P .H u o152,A .M .H u p e33, N. Huseynov77,af,J .H u s t o n104,J .H u t h57,
R. Hyneman103, G. Iacobucci 52, G. Iakovidis 29, I. Ibragimov 148, L. Iconomidou-Fayard 129, Z. Idrissi 34e, P. Iengo 35,
R. Ignazzi39, O. Igonkina118,ab, R. Iguchi160,T .I i z a w a52,Y .I k e g a m i79, M. Ikeno79, D. Iliadis159, N. Ilic117, F. Iltzsche46,
G. Introzzi68a,68b, M. Iodice 72a, K. Iordanidou 38, V . Ippolito 70a,70b, M. F. Isacson 169, N. Ishijima 130,M . I s h i n o160,
M. Ishitsuka162,W . I s l a m126, C. Issever 132, S. Istin 157,F . I t o166, J. M. Iturbe Ponce 61a, R. Iuppa 73a,73b, A. Ivina 177,
H. Iwasaki79, J .M .I z e n42, V . Izzo67a, P. Jacka 138, P. Jackson 1, R. M. Jacobs 24,V . J a i n2, G. Jäkel 179, K. B. Jakobi 97,
K. Jakobs50, S. Jakobsen 74, T. Jakoubek 138, D .O .J a m i n126, R. Jansky 52, J. Janssen 24, M. Janus 51, P. A. Janus 81a,
G. Jarlskog94, N. Javadov77,af,T .J a v ˚urek35, M. Javurkova50, F. Jeanneau142, L. Jeanty18, J. Jejelava156a,ag, A. Jelinskas175,
P. Jenni50,d, J. Jeong 44, N. Jeong 44, S. Jézéquel 5,H . J i178,J . J i a152, H. Jiang 76, Y . Jiang58a, Z. Jiang 150,r, S. Jiggins 50,
F. A. Jimenez Morales37, J. Jimenez Pena 171,S . J i n15c, A. Jinaru 27b, O. Jinnouchi 162,H . J i v a n32c, P. Johansson 146,
K. A. Johns7, C. A. Johnson63, K. Jon-And43a,43b, R. W. L. Jones87, S. D. Jones153, S. Jones7, T. J. Jones88, J. Jongmanns59a,
P. M. Jorge137a,137b, J. Jovicevic 165a,X . J u 18, J. J. Junggeburth 113, A. Juste Rozas 14,z, A. Kaczmarska 82, M. Kado 129,
H. Kagan123, M. Kagan150,T .K a j i176, E. Kajomovitz157, C. W. Kalderon94, A. Kaluza97,S .K a m a41, A. Kamenshchikov121,
L. Kanjir89, Y . Kano160, V . A. Kantserov110, J. Kanzaki 79, L. S. Kaplan 178,D . K a r32c, M. J. Kareem 165b, E. Karentzos 10,
S. N. Karpov77,Z .M .K a r p o v a77, V . Kartvelishvili87, A. N. Karyukhin121, L. Kashif178,R .D .K a s s123, A. Kastanas43a,43b,
Y . Kataoka160,C .K a t o58d,58c, J. Katzy44, K. Kawade80, K. Kawagoe85, T. Kawaguchi115, T. Kawamoto160, G. Kawamura51,
E. F. Kay88, V . F. Kazanin 120a,120b, R. Keeler 173, R. Kehoe 41, J .S .K e l l e r33, E. Kellermann 94, J. J. Kempster 21,
J. Kendrick21, O. Kepka 138, S. Kersten 179, B. P. Kerševan 89, S. Ketabchi Haghighat 164, R. A. Keyes 101, M. Khader 170,
F. Khalil-Zada13, A. Khanov 126, A .G .K h a r l a m o v120a,120b, T. Kharlamova 120a,120b, E. E. Khoda 172, A. Khodinov 163,
T. J. Khoo52, E. Khramov 77, J. Khubua 156b,S . K i d o80, M. Kiehn 52, C. R. Kilby 91,Y . K . K i m36,N . K i m u r a64a,64c,
O. M. Kind19,B .T .K i n g88, D. Kirchmeier46,J .K i r k141, A. E. Kiryunin113, T. Kishimoto160, D. Kisielewska81a, V . Kitali44,
O. Kivernyk5, E. Kladiva 28b,*, T. Klapdor-Kleingrothaus 50, M .H .K l e i n103, M. Klein 88, U. Klein 88, K. Kleinknecht 97,
P. Klimek119, A. Klimentov29, T. Klingl24, T. Klioutchnikova35, F. F. Klitzner112, P. Kluit118, S. Kluth113, E. Kneringer74,
E. B. F. G. Knoops99, A. Knue 50, A. Kobayashi 160, D. Kobayashi 85, T. Kobayashi 160, M. Kobel 46, M. Kocian 150,
P. Kodys140, P. T. Koenig 24,T . K o f f a s33,E . K o f f e m a n118, N. M. Köhler 113,T . K o i150,M . K o l b59b, I. Koletsou 5,
T. Kondo79, N. Kondrashova 58c, K. Köneke 50, A. C. König 117, T. Kono 79, R. Konoplich 122,an, V . Konstantinides 92,
N. Konstantinidis92, B. Konya 94, R. Kopeliansky 63, S. Koperny 81a,K . K o r c y l82, K. Kordas 159, G. Koren 158,A . K o r n92,
I. Korolkov14, E. V . Korolkova146, N. Korotkova 111, O. Kortner 113, S. Kortner 113, T. Kosek 140, V . V . Kostyukhin24,
A. Kotwal47, A. Koulouris 10, A. Kourkoumeli-Charalampidi 68a,68b, C. Kourkoumelis 9, E. Kourlitis 146, V . Kouskoura29,
A. B. Kowalewska82, R. Kowalewski 173,T . Z . K o w a l s k i81a, C. Kozakai 160, W. Kozanecki 142, A. S. Kozhin 121,
123

===== PAGE 31 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 31 of 40 639
V . A. Kramarenko111, G. Kramberger 89, D. Krasnopevtsev 58a,M . W . K r a s n y133, A. Krasznahorkay 35, D. Krauss 113,
J. A. Kremer81a, J. Kretzschmar 88, P. Krieger 164, K. Krizka 18, K. Kroeninger 45, H. Kroha 113,J . K r o l l138,J . K r o l l134,
J. Krstic16, U. Kruchonak 77, H. Krüger 24, N. Krumnack 76, M. C. Kruse 47, T. Kubota 102, S. Kuday 4b, J. T. Kuechler 179,
S. Kuehn35, A. Kugel 59a, T. Kuhl 44, V . Kukhtin77, R. Kukla 99, Y . Kulchitsky105,aj, S. Kuleshov 144b, Y . P. Kulinich170,
M. Kuna56, T. Kunigo 83, A. Kupco 138, T. Kupfer 45, O. Kuprash 158, H. Kurashige 80, L. L. Kurchaninov 165a,
Y . A. Kurochkin105,A .K u r o v a110,M .G .K u r t h15d, E. S. Kuwertz35, M. Kuze162, J. Kvita127,T .K w a n101,A .L aR o s a113,
J. L. La Rosa Navarro78d, L. La Rotonda 40b,40a,F . L a R u f f a40b,40a, C. Lacasta 171, F. Lacava 70a,70b, J. Lacey 44,
D. P. J. Lack98, H. Lacker19, D. Lacour133, E. Ladygin77, R. Lafaye5, B. Laforge133, T. Lagouri32c,S .L a i51, S. Lammers63,
W. Lampl7, E. Lançon 29, U. Landgraf 50, M. P. J. Landon 90, M. C. Lanfermann 52, V . S. Lang 44, J. C. Lange 51,
R. J. Langenberg35, A. J. Lankford 168, F. Lanni 29, K. Lantzsch 24, A. Lanza 68a, A. Lapertosa 53a,53b, S. Laplace 133,
J. F. Laporte142,T . L a r i66a, F. Lasagni Manghi 23a,23b, M. Lassnig 35,T . S . L a u61a, A. Laudrain 129, M. Lavorgna 67a,67b,
M. Lazzaroni66a,66b,B . L e 102,O . L e D o r t z133, E. Le Guirriec 99, E. P. Le Quilleuc 142, M. LeBlanc 7, T. LeCompte 6,
F. Ledroit-Guillon56,C . A . L e e29, G .R .L e e144a,L . L e e57,S . C . L e e155, B. Lefebvre 101, M. Lefebvre 173, F. Legger 112,
C. Leggett18, K. Lehmann 149, N. Lehmann 179, G. Lehmann Miotto 35, W. A. Leight 44,A . L e i s o s159,w, M .A .L .L e i t e78d,
R. Leitner140, D. Lellouch 177, K .J .C .L e n e y92, T. Lenz 24, B. Lenzi 35, R. Leone 7, S. Leone 69a, C. Leonidopoulos 48,
G. Lerner153,C . L e r o y107,R . L e s164, A .A .J .L e s a g e142,C . G . L e s t e r31, M. Levchenko 135, J. Levêque 5,D . L e v i n103,
L. J. Levinson177,D .L e w i s90,B .L i15b,B .L i103,C - Q .L i58a,am,H .L i58a,H .L i58b,L .L i58c,M .L i15a,Q .L i15d,Q .Y .L i58a,
S. Li58d,58c,X .L i58c,Y .L i148, Z. Liang15a, B. Liberti71a, A. Liblong164,K .L i e61c,S .L i e m118, A. Limosani154,C .Y .L i n31,
K. Lin104,T . H . L i n97, R .A .L i n c k63, J. H. Lindon 21, B. E. Lindquist 152, A. L. Lionti 52, E. Lipeles 134, A. Lipniacka 17,
M. Lisovyi59b, T .M .L i s s170,as, A. Lister 172, A .M .L i t k e143, J. D. Little 8,B . L i u76,B . L . L i u6,H . B . L i u29,H . L i u103,
J. B. Liu58a,J . K . K . L i u132,K . L i u133,M . L i u58a,P . L i u18,Y . L i u15a,Y . L . L i u58a, Y .W .L i u58a,M . L i v a n68a,68b,
A. Lleres56, J. Llorente Merino15a,S .L .L l o y d90,C .Y .L o61b,F .L oS t e r z o41, E. M. Lobodzinska44, P. Loch7, T. Lohse19,
K. Lohwasser146, M. Lokajicek 138, J .D .L o n g170, R. E. Long 87, L. Longo 65a,65b, K. A. Looper 123, J. A. Lopez 144b,
I. Lopez Paz98, A. Lopez Solis 146, J. Lorenz 112, N. Lorenzo Martinez 5, M. Losada 22, P .J .L ö s e l112,A . L ö s l e50,
X. Lou44,X . L o u15a, A. Lounis 129, J. Love 6, P. A. Love 87, J. J. Lozano Bahilo 171,H . L u 61a,M . L u 58a,Y . J . L u62,
H. J. Lubatti145, C. Luci70a,70b, A. Lucotte56, C. Luedtke50, F. Luehring63,I .L u i s e133, L. Luminari70a, B. Lund-Jensen151,
M. S. Lutz100, P. M. Luzi 133, D. Lynn 29, R. Lysak 138,E . L y t k e n94,F . L y u15a, V . Lyubushkin 77, T. Lyubushkina 77,
H. Ma29,L . L . M a58b,Y . M a58b, G. Maccarrone 49, A. Macchiolo 113, C. M. Macdonald 146, J. Machado Miguens 134,137b,
D. Madaffari171, R. Madar 37, W. F. Mader 46, N. Madysa 46, J. Maeda 80, K. Maekawa 160, S. Maeland 17, T. Maeno 29,
M. Maerker46, A. S. Maevskiy 111, V . Magerl50, D. J. Mahon 38, C. Maidantchik 78b, T. Maier 112,A . M a i o137a,137b,137d,
O. Majersky28a,S . M a j e w s k i128, Y . Makida 79, N. Makovec 129, B. Malaescu 133, Pa. Malecki 82, V . P. Maleev 135,
F. Malek56, U. Mallik 75, D. Malon 6, C. Malone 31, S. Maltezos 10, S. Malyukov 35, J. Mamuzic 171, G. Mancini 49,
I. Mandi´c89, J. Maneira 137a, L. Manhaes de Andrade Filho 78a, J. Manjarres Ramos 46, K. H. Mankinen 94, A. Mann 112,
A. Manousos74, B. Mansoulie 142, S. Manzoni 66a,66b, A. Marantis 159, G. Marceca 30, L. March 52, L. Marchese 132,
G. Marchiori133, M. Marcisovsky138, C. Marcon94, C. A. Marin Tobon35, M. Marjanovic37, F. Marroquim78b, Z. Marshall18,
M.U.F Martensson169, S. Marti-Garcia 171, C. B. Martin 123, T .A .M a r t i n175, V .J .M a r t i n48, B. Martin dit Latour 17,
M. Martinez14,z, V . I. Martinez Outschoorn100, S. Martin-Haugh 141, V . S. Martoiu27b, A. C. Martyniuk 92, A. Marzin 35,
L. Masetti97, T. Mashimo160, R. Mashinistov108,J . M a s i k98, A. L. Maslennikov120a,120b, L. H. Mason102, L. Massa71a,71b,
P. Massarotti67a,67b, P. Mastrandrea152, A. Mastroberardino40b,40a, T. Masubuchi160, P. Mättig24, J. Maurer27b,B .M a ˇcek89,
S. J. Maxﬁeld88, D .A .M a x i m o v120a,120b, R. Mazini 155, I. Maznas 159, S. M. Mazza 143,S . P . M c K e e103, A. McCarn 41,
T. G. McCarthy113, L. I. McClymont 92, W. P. McCormack 18, E. F. McDonald 102, J. A. Mcfayden 35, G. Mchedlidze 51,
M. A. McKay41, K. D. McLean 173, S. J. McMahon 141, P. C. McNamara 102, C. J. McNicol 175, R. A. McPherson 173,ad,
J. E. Mdhluli32c, Z. A. Meadows100, S. Meehan145,T .M .M e g y50, S. Mehlhase112, A. Mehta88, T. Meideck56, B. Meirose42,
D. Melini171,h, B. R. Mellado Garcia 32c, J. D. Mellenthin 51,M . M e l o28a, F. Meloni 44, A. Melzer 24, S. B. Menary 98,
E. D. Mendes Gouveia137a, L. Meng88, X. T. Meng103, S. Menke113, E. Meoni40b,40a, S. Mergelmeyer19,S .A .M .M e r k t136,
C. Merlassino20,P . M e r m o d52, L. Merola 67a,67b, C. Meroni 66a, F .S .M e r r i t t36, A. Messina 70a,70b, J. Metcalfe 6,
A. S. Mete168, C. Meyer 63, J. Meyer 157, J-P. Meyer 142, H. Meyer Zu Theenhausen 59a, F. Miano 153, R. P. Middleton 141,
L. Mijovi´c48, G. Mikenberg177, M. Mikestikova138, M. Mikuž89, M. Milesi102, A. Milic164, D. A. Millar90, D. W. Miller36,
A. Milov177, D .A .M i l s t e a d43a,43b, R .A .M i n a150,r, A. A. Minaenko 121, M. Miñano Moya 171, I. A. Minashvili 156b,
A. I. Mincer122, B. Mindur 81a, M. Mineev 77, Y . Minegishi160,Y . M i n g178, L .M .M i r14, A. Mirto 65a,65b, K. P. Mistry134,
T. Mitani176, J. Mitrevski 112, V . A. Mitsou 171, M. Mittal 58c, A. Miucci 20, P. S. Miyagawa 146, A. Mizukami 79,
J. U. Mjörnmark94, T. Mkrtchyan 181, M. Mlynarikova 140,T . M o a43a,43b, K. Mochizuki 107, P. Mogg 50, S. Mohapatra 38,
S. Molander43a,43b, R. Moles-Valls 24, M. C. Mondragon 104, K. Mönig 44, J. Monk 39, E. Monnier 99, A. Montalbano 149,
123

===== PAGE 32 =====
639 Page 32 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
J. Montejo Berlingen35, F. Monticelli86, S. Monzani66a, N. Morange129, D. Moreno22, M. Moreno Llácer35, P. Morettini53b,
M. Morgenstern118, S. Morgenstern 46,D . M o r i149,M . M o r i i57, M. Morinaga 176, V . Morisbak 131,A . K . M o r l e y35,
G. Mornacchi35,A . P . M o r r i s92, J .D .M o r r i s90,L . M o r v a j152, P. Moschovakos 10, M. Mosidze 156b, H .J .M o s s146,
J. Moss150,o, K. Motohashi162, R. Mount150, E. Mountricha35,E .J .W .M o y s e100, S. Muanza99, F. Mueller113, J. Mueller136,
R. S. P. Mueller112, D. Muenstermann 87, G. A. Mullier 94, F. J. Munoz Sanchez 98,P . M u r i n28b, W .J .M u r r a y175,141,
A. Murrone66a,66b, M. Muškinja 89,C . M w e w a32a, A. G. Myagkov 121,ao, J. Myers 128, M. Myska 139, B. P. Nachman 18,
O. Nackenhorst45, K. Nagai 132, K. Nagano 79, Y . Nagasaka60, M. Nagel 50, E. Nagy 99, A .M .N a i r z35, Y . Nakahama115,
K. Nakamura79, T. Nakamura 160, I. Nakano 124, H. Nanjo 130, F. Napolitano 59a, R. F. Naranjo Garcia 44, R. Narayan 11,
D. I. Narrias Villar59a, I. Naryshkin 135, T. Naumann 44,G . N a v a r r o22, R. Nayyar 7, H. A. Neal 103,*, P. Y . Nechaeva108,
T. J. Neep142,A . N e g r i68a,68b,M . N e g r i n i23b, S. Nektarijevic 117, C. Nellist 51,M . E . N e l s o n132, S. Nemecek 138,
P. Nemethy122, M. Nessi35,f, M. S. Neubauer170, M. Neumann179, P. R. Newman21,T .Y .N g61c,Y .S .N g19,Y .W .Y .N g168,
H. D. N. Nguyen99, T. Nguyen Manh 107, E. Nibigira 37, R. B. Nickerson 132, R. Nicolaidou 142, D. S. Nielsen 39,
J. Nielsen143, N. Nikiforou11, V . Nikolaenko121,ao, I. Nikolic-Audit133, K. Nikolopoulos21, P. Nilsson29, H. R. Nindhito52,
Y . Ninomiya79,A .N i s a t i70a,N .N i s h u58c, R. Nisius113, I. Nitsche45, T. Nitta176, T. Nobe160, Y . Noguchi83, M. Nomachi130,
I. Nomidis133, M .A .N o m u r a29, T. Nooney 90, M. Nordberg 35, N. Norjoharuddeen 132,T . N o v a k89, O. Novgorodova 46,
R. Novotny139, L. Nozka 127, K. Ntekas 168,E . N u r s e92,F . N u t i102, F. G. Oakham 33,av, H. Oberlack 113, J. Ocariz 133,
A. Ochi80, I. Ochoa 38, J. P. Ochoa-Ricoux 144a, K. O’Connor 26,S . O d a 85, S. Odaka 79, S. Oerdek 51,A . O h 98,
S. H. Oh47,C . C . O h m151,H . O i d e53a,53b, M. L. Ojeda 164,H . O k a w a166, Y . Okazaki83, Y . Okumura160, T. Okuyama 79,
A. Olariu27b, L. F. Oleiro Seabra 137a, S. A. Olivares Pino 144a, D. Oliveira Damazio 29, J .L .O l i v e r1, M .J .R .O l s s o n36,
A. Olszewski82, J. Olszowska 82,D . C . O ’ N e i l149, A. Onofre 137a,137e, K. Onogi 115, P .U .E .O n y i s i11, H. Oppen 131,
M. J. Oreglia36, G. E. Orellana 86,Y . O r e n158, D. Orestano 72a,72b, E. C. Orgill 98, N. Orlando 61b, A .A .O ’ R o u r k e44,
R. S. Orr164, B. Osculati 53a,53b,*, V . O’Shea 55, R. Ospanov 58a, G. Otero y Garzon 30, H. Otono 85, M. Ouchrif 34d,
F. Ould-Saada131, A. Ouraou 142, Q. Ouyang 15a, M. Owen 55, R. E. Owen 21, V . E. Ozcan12c, N. Ozturk 8, J. Pacalt 127,
H. A. Pacey31, K. Pachal 149, A. Pacheco Pages 14, L. Pacheco Rodriguez 142, C. Padilla Aranda 14, S. Pagan Griso 18,
M. Paganini180, G. Palacino 63, S. Palazzo 48, S. Palestini 35, M. Palka 81b, D. Pallin 37, I. Panagoulias 10, C. E. Pandini 35,
J. G. Panduro Vazquez91, P. Pani 35, G. Panizzo 64a,64c, L. Paolozzi 52, T. D. Papadopoulou 10, K. Papageorgiou 9,k,
A. Paramonov6, D. Paredes Hernandez61b, S. R. Paredes Saenz132,B .P a r i d a163,T .H .P a r k33,A .J .P a r k e r87,K .A .P a r k e r44,
M. A. Parker31, F. Parodi 53a,53b, J. A. Parsons 38, U. Parzefall 50, V . R. Pascuzzi164, J. M. P. Pasner 143, E. Pasqualucci 70a,
S. Passaggio53b,F . P a s t o r e91, P. Pasuwan 43a,43b, S. Pataraia 97, J .R .P a t e r98, A. Pathak 178,l, T. Pauly 35, B. Pearson 113,
M. Pedersen131, L. Pedraza Diaz 117, R. Pedro 137a,137b, S. V . Peleganchuk120a,120b, O. Penc 138, C. Peng 15d, H. Peng 58a,
B. S. Peralva78a,M .M .P e r e g o129, A. P. Pereira Peixoto137a, D. V . Perepelitsa29, F. Peri19, L. Perini66a,66b, H. Pernegger35,
S. Perrella67a,67b, V . D. Peshekhonov77,*, K. Peters 44, R. F. Y . Peters98, B. A. Petersen 35, T. C. Petersen 39, E. Petit 56,
A. Petridis1, C. Petridou159, P. Petroff129, M. Petrov132, F. Petrucci72a,72b, M. Pettee180, N. E. Pettersson100, A. Peyaud142,
R. Pezoa144b, T. Pham 102, F. H. Phillips 104, P. W. Phillips 141, M. W. Phipps 170, G. Piacquadio 152, E. Pianori 18,
A. Picazio100, R. H. Pickles 98, R. Piegaia 30, J. E. Pilcher 36, A. D. Pilkington 98, M. Pinamonti 71a,71b, J. L. Pinfold 3,
M. Pitt177, L. Pizzimento 71a,71b, M.-A. Pleier 29,V . P l e s k o t140, E. Plotnikova 77, D. Pluth 76, P. Podberezko 120a,120b,
R. Poettgen94, R. Poggi 52, L. Poggioli 129, I. Pogrebnyak 104, D. Pohl 24, I. Pokharel 51, G. Polesello 68a, A. Poley 18,
A. Policicchio70a,70b, R. Polifka35, A. Polini23b, C. S. Pollard44, V . Polychronakos29, D. Ponomarenko110, L. Pontecorvo35,
G. A. Popeneciu27d, D. M. Portillo Quintero 133, S. Pospisil 139, K. Potamianos 44, I .N .P o t r a p77, C. J. Potter 31,
H. Potti11, T. Poulsen 94, J. Poveda 35,T . D . P o w e l l146, M. E. Pozo Astigarraga 35, P. Pralavorio 99,S . P r e l l76,D . P r i c e98,
M. Primavera65a, S. Prince 101,M . L . P r o f ﬁ t t145, N. Proklova 110, K. Prokoﬁev 61c, F. Prokoshin 144b, S. Protopopescu 29,
J. Proudfoot6, M. Przybycien 81a, A. Puri 170, P. Puzo 129,J . Q i a n103,Y . Q i n98, A. Quadt 51, M. Queitsch-Maitland 44,
A. Qureshi1, P. Rados102, F. Ragusa66a,66b, G. Rahal95,J .A .R a i n e52, S. Rajagopalan29, A. Ramirez Morales90,K .R a n15a,
T. Rashid129, S. Raspopov5,M .G .R a t t i66a,66b, D. M. Rauch44, F. Rauscher112,S .R a v e97,B .R a v i n a146, I. Ravinovich177,
J. H. Rawling98, M. Raymond35, A. L. Read131, N. P. Readioff56, M. Reale65a,65b, D. M. Rebuzzi68a,68b, A. Redelbach174,
G. Redlinger29, R. Reece 143, R .G .R e e d32c,K . R e e v e s42, L. Rehnisch 19, J. Reichert 134, D. Reikher 158,A . R e i s s97,
A. Rej148, C. Rembser 35,H . R e n15d, M. Rescigno 70a, S. Resconi 66a, E. D. Resseguie 134, S. Rettie 172, E. Reynolds 21,
O. L. Rezanova120a,120b, P. Reznicek 140, E. Ricci 73a,73b, R. Richter 113, S. Richter 44, E. Richter-Was 81b,O . R i c k e n24,
M. Ridel133, P. Rieck113, C. J. Riegel 179,O . R i f k i44, M. Rijssenbeek 152, A. Rimoldi 68a,68b, M. Rimoldi 20, L. Rinaldi 23b,
G. Ripellino151, B. Risti´c87, E. Ritsch 35,I . R i u14, J .C .R i v e r aV e r g a r a144a, F. Rizatdinova 126, E. Rizvi 90, C. Rizzi 14,
R. T. Roberts98, S. H. Robertson 101,ad, D. Robinson 31, J. E. M. Robinson 44, A. Robson 55, E. Rocco 97, C. Roda 69a,69b,
Y . Rodina99, S. Rodriguez Bosca 171, A. Rodriguez Perez 14, D. Rodriguez Rodriguez 171, A. M. Rodríguez Vera 165b,
S. Roe35, C. S. Rogan57, O. Røhne131, R. Röhrig113, C. P. A. Roland63, J. Roloff57, A. Romaniouk110, M. Romano23a,23b,
123

===== PAGE 33 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 33 of 40 639
N. Rompotis88, M. Ronzani 122, L. Roos 133, S. Rosati 70a, K. Rosbach 50,N - A . R o s i e n51, B .J .R o s s e r134, E. Rossi 44,
E. Rossi72a,72b, E. Rossi 67a,67b, L. P. Rossi 53b, L. Rossini 66a,66b, J .H .N .R o s t e n31,R . R o s t e n14, M. Rotaru 27b,
J. Rothberg145, D. Rousseau 129,D . R o y 32c, A. Rozanov 99, Y . Rozen 157, X. Ruan 32c, F. Rubbo 150, F. Rühr 50,
A. Ruiz-Martinez171,Z . R u r i k o v a50, N. A. Rusakovich 77, H. L. Russell 101, J. P. Rutherfoord 7, E. M. Rüttinger 44,m,
Y . F. Ryabov135, M. Rybar 38, G. Rybkin 129,S . R y u6, A. Ryzhov 121, G. F. Rzehorz 51, P. Sabatini 51, G. Sabato 118,
S. Sacerdoti129, H.F-W. Sadrozinski 143, R. Sadykov 77, F. Safai Tehrani 70a, P. Saha 119, M. Sahinsoy 59a, A. Sahu 179,
M. Saimpert44, M. Saito 160, T. Saito 160, H. Sakamoto 160, A. Sakharov 122,an, D. Salamani 52, G. Salamanna 72a,72b,
J. E. Salazar Loyola144b, P. H. Sales De Bruin 169, D. Salihagic 113, A. Salnikov 150, J. Salt 171, D. Salvatore 40b,40a,
F. Salvatore153, A. Salvucci61a,61b,61c, A. Salzburger35, J. Samarati35, D. Sammel50, D. Sampsonidis159, D. Sampsonidou159,
J. Sánchez171, A. Sanchez Pineda 64a,64c, H. Sandaker 131, C. O. Sander 44, M. Sandhoff 179, C. Sandoval 22,
D. P. C. Sankey141, M. Sannino 53a,53b, Y . Sano115, A. Sansoni 49, C. Santoni 37, H. Santos 137a, I. Santoyo Castillo 153,
A. Santra171, A. Sapronov 77, J. G. Saraiva 137a,137d, O. Sasaki 79, K. Sato 166, E. Sauvan 5,P . S a v a r d164,av,N . S a v i c113,
R. Sawada160, C. Sawyer 141, L. Sawyer 93,al, C. Sbarra 23b, A. Sbrizzi 23a, T. Scanlon 92, J. Schaarschmidt 145,
P. Schacht113, B. M. Schachtner 112, D. Schaefer 36, L. Schaefer 134, J. Schaeffer 97, S. Schaepe 35, U. Schäfer 97,
A. C. Schaffer129, D. Schaile 112, R. D. Schamberger 152, N. Scharmberg 98, V . A. Schegelsky 135, D. Scheirich 140,
F. Schenck19, M. Schernau 168, C. Schiavi 53a,53b, S. Schier 143, L. K. Schildgen 24, Z. M. Schillaci 26, E. J. Schioppa 35,
M. Schioppa40b,40a, K. E. Schleicher 50, S. Schlenker 35, K. R. Schmidt-Sommerfeld 113, K. Schmieden 35, C. Schmitt 97,
S. Schmitt44, S. Schmitz97, J. C. Schmoeckel44, U. Schnoor50, L. Schoeffel142, A. Schoening59b, E. Schopf132, M. Schott97,
J. F. P. Schouwenberg117, J. Schovancova 35, S. Schramm 52, A. Schulte 97, H-C. Schultz-Coulon 59a, M. Schumacher 50,
B. A. Schumm143, Ph. Schune 142, A. Schwartzman 150, T. A. Schwarz 103, Ph. Schwemling 142, R. Schwienhorst 104,
A. Sciandra24, G. Sciolla 26, M. Scornajenghi 40b,40a, F. Scuri 69a, F. Scutti 102, L. M. Scyboz 113, C. D. Sebastiani 70a,70b,
P. Seema19, S. C. Seidel 116, A. Seiden 143, T. Seiss 36, J. M. Seixas 78b, G. Sekhniaidze 67a, K. Sekhon 103, S. J. Sekula 41,
N. Semprini-Cesari23a,23b, S. Sen 47, S. Senkin 37, C. Serfon 131, L. Serin 129, L. Serkin 64a,64b, M. Sessa 58a,H . S e v e r i n i125,
F. Sforza167, A. Sfyrla 52, E. Shabalina 51, J. D. Shahinian 143, N. W. Shaikh 43a,43b, D. Shaked Renous 177, L. Y . Shan15a,
R. Shang170, J. T. Shank 25, M. Shapiro 18, A. S. Sharma 1, A. Sharma 132, P. B. Shatalov 109, K. Shaw 153, S. M. Shaw 98,
A. Shcherbakova135, Y . Shen 125, N. Sherafati 33, A. D. Sherman 25, P. Sherwood 92, L. Shi 155,ar, S. Shimizu 79,
C. O. Shimmin180, Y . Shimogama176, M. Shimojima 114, I .P .J .S h i p s e y132, S. Shirabe 85, M. Shiyakova 77, J. Shlomi 177,
A. Shmeleva108, D. Shoaleh Saadi 107, M. J. Shochet 36, S. Shojaii 102, D. R. Shope 125, S. Shrestha 123, E. Shulga 110,
P. Sicho138, A. M. Sickles 170, P. E. Sidebo 151, E. Sideras Haddad 32c, O. Sidiropoulou 35, A. Sidoti 23a,23b, F. Siegert 46,
Dj. Sijacki16, J. Silva 137a, M. Silva Jr. 178, M. V . Silva Oliveira 78a, S. B. Silverstein 43a, S. Simion 129, E. Simioni 97,
M. Simon97, R. Simoniello97, P. Sinervo164,N .B .S i n e v128, M. Sioli23a,23b,I .S i r a l103, S. Yu. Sivoklokov111, J. Sjölin43a,43b,
P. Skubic125, M. Slater 21, T. Slavicek 139, M. Slawinska 82, K. Sliwa 167,R . S l o v a k140, V . Smakhtin177, B .H .S m a r t5,
J. Smiesko28a,N . S m i r n o v110, S. Yu. Smirnov 110,Y . S m i r n o v110,L . N . S m i r n o v a111,O . S m i r n o v a94, J. W. Smith 51,
M. Smizanska87,K . S m o l e k139, A. Smykiewicz 82, A. A. Snesarev 108, I. M. Snyder 128, S. Snyder 29, R. Sobie 173,ad,
A. M. Soffa168, A. Soffer 158, A. Søgaard 48, F. Sohns 51, G. Sokhrannyi 89, C. A. Solans Sanchez 35, M. Solar 139,
E. Yu. Soldatov110, U. Soldevila 171, A. A. Solodkov 121, A. Soloshenko 77, O. V . Solovyanov 121, V . Solovyev 135,
P. Sommer146, H. Son 167, W. Song 141, W. Y . Song 165b, A. Sopczak 139, F. Sopkova 28b, C. L. Sotiropoulou 69a,69b,
S. Sottocornola68a,68b, R. Soualah 64a,64c,j, A. M. Soukharev 120a,120b, D. South 44, S. Spagnolo 65a,65b, M. Spalla 113,
M. Spangenberg175, F. Spanò91, D. Sperlich19, T. M. Spieker59a, R. Spighi23b, G. Spigo35, L. A. Spiller102, D. P. Spiteri55,
M. Spousta140, A. Stabile66a,66b,R .S t a m e n59a,S .S t a m m19, E. Stanecka82, R. W. Stanek6, C. Stanescu72a, B. Stanislaus132,
M. M. Stanitzki44, B. Stapf 118, S. Stapnes 131, E. A. Starchenko 121, G .H .S t a r k143,J . S t a r k56,S . H . S t a r k39,
P. Staroba138, P. Starovoitov59a,S . S t ä r z101, R. Staszewski 82, M. Stegler 44, P. Steinberg29, B. Stelzer 149, H .J .S t e l z e r35,
O. Stelzer-Chilton165a, H. Stenzel 54, T. J. Stevenson 90,G . A . S t e w a r t35, M. C. Stockton 35, G. Stoicea 27b, P. Stolte 51,
S. Stonjek113, A. Straessner 46, J. Strandberg 151, S. Strandberg 43a,43b, M. Strauss 125, P. Strizenec 28b, R. Ströhmer 174,
D. M. Strom128, R. Stroynowski 41, A. Strubig 48, S. A. Stucci 29, B. Stugu 17, J. Stupak 125, N. A. Styles 44,D . S u 150,
J. Su136, S. Suchek 59a, Y . Sugaya130, M. Suk 139, V . V . Sulin108, M .J .S u l l i v a n88, D .M .S .S u l t a n52, S. Sultansoy 4c,
T. Sumida83, S. Sun 103, X. Sun 3, K. Suruliz 153, C .J .E .S u s t e r154, M. R. Sutton 153, S. Suzuki 79,M . S v a t o s138,
M. Swiatlowski36,S . P . S w i f t2, A. Sydorenko 97, I. Sykora 28a, M. Sykora 140, T. Sykora 140,D . T a97, K. Tackmann 44,aa,
J. Taenzer158,A .T a f f a r d168, R. Taﬁrout165a, E. Tahirovic90, N. Taiblum158, H. Takai29, R. Takashima84, E. H. Takasugi113,
K. Takeda80, T. Takeshita 147, Y . Takubo 79, M. Talby 99, A. A. Talyshev 120a,120b, J. Tanaka 160, M. Tanaka 162,
R. Tanaka129, B. B. Tannenwald123, S. Tapia Araya 144b, S. Tapprogge97, A. Tarek Abouelfadl Mohamed 133, S. Tarem157,
G. Tarna27b,e, G. F. Tartarelli 66a,P . T a s140,M . T a s e v s k y138, T. Tashiro 83, E. Tassi 40b,40a, A. Tavares Delgado 137a,137b,
Y . Tayalati34e, A. C. Taylor 116, A. J. Taylor 48, G. N. Taylor 102, P. T. E. Taylor 102, W. Taylor 165b,A . S . T e e 87,
123

===== PAGE 34 =====
639 Page 34 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
R. Teixeira De Lima150, P. Teixeira-Dias 91,H . T e n K a t e35, J. J. Teoh 118, S. Terada 79, K. Terashi 160,J . T e r r o n96,
S. Terzo14,M . T e s t a49, R. J. Teuscher 164,ad, S .J .T h a i s180, T. Theveneaux-Pelzer 44, F. Thiele 39, D. W. Thomas 91,
J. P. Thomas21, A. S. Thompson55, P. D. Thompson21, L. A. Thomsen180, E. Thomson134,Y .T i a n38, R. E. Ticse Torres51,
V . O. Tikhomirov108,ap, Yu. A. Tikhonov 120a,120b, S. Timoshenko 110, P. Tipton 180, S. Tisserant 99, K. Todome 162,
S. Todorova-Nova5, S. Todt 46,J . T o j o85, S. Tokár 28a, K. Tokushuku 79, E. Tolley 123,K . G . T o m i w a32c, M. Tomoto 115,
L. Tompkins150,r,K . T o m s116, B. Tong 57, P. Tornambe50, E. Torrence 128,H . T o r r e s46, E. Torró Pastor 145, C. Tosciri 132,
J. Toth99,ac, F. Touchard99, D. R. Tovey146, C. J. Treado 122, T. Trefzger174,F . T r e s o l d i153, A. Tricoli 29, I. M. Trigger 165a,
S. Trincaz-Duvoid133, W. Trischuk 164, B. Trocmé 56, A. Trofymov 129, C. Troncon 66a, M. Trovatelli 173,F . T r o v a t o153,
L. Truong32b, M. Trzebinski 82, A. Trzupek 82,F . T s a i44, J.C-L. Tseng 132, P. V . Tsiareshka 105,aj, A. Tsirigotis 159,
N. Tsirintanis9, V . Tsiskaridze152, E. G. Tskhadadze156a,I .I .T s u k e r m a n109, V . Tsulaia18, S. Tsuno79, D. Tsybychev152,163,
Y. Tu61b, A. Tudorache 27b, V . Tudorache 27b,T . T . T u l b u r e27a, A. N. Tuna 57, S. Turchikhin 77, D. Turgeman 177,
I. Turk Cakir4b,u, R. Turra 66a,P . M . T u t s38, S Tzamarias 159,E . T z o v a r a97, G. Ucchielli 45, I. Ueda 79, M. Ughetto 43a,43b,
F. Ukegawa166, G. Unal 35, A. Undrus 29, G. Unel 168, F. C. Ungaro 102, Y . Unno79,K . U n o160, J. Urban 28b, P. Urquijo102,
G. Usai8,J . U s u i79, L. Vacavant 99, V . Vacek 139, B. Vachon 101, K .O .H .V a d l a131, A. Vaidya 92, C. Valderanis 112,
E. Valdes Santurio43a,43b, M. Valente 52, S. Valentinetti 23a,23b, A. Valero 171, L. Valéry 44, R. A. Vallance 21, A. Vallier 5,
J. A. Valls Ferrer171, T. R. Van Daalen 14, H. Van der Graaf 118, P. Van Gemmeren6, I. Van Vulpen 118, M. Vanadia 71a,71b,
W. Vandelli35, A. Vaniachine 163, P. Vankov118,R . V a r i70a, E. W. Varnes7, C. Varni 53a,53b, T. Varol 41, D. Varouchas 129,
K. E. Varvell154, G. A. Vasquez 144b, J. G. Vasquez 180, F. Vazeille 37, D. Vazquez Furelos 14, T. Vazquez Schroeder 35,
J. Veatch51, V . Vecchio72a,72b, L. M. Veloce 164, F. Veloso 137a,137c, S. Veneziano 70a, A. Ventura 65a,65b, N. Venturi 35,
V . Vercesi68a, M. Verducci 72a,72b, C. M. Vergel Infante 76, C. Vergis 24,W . V e r k e r k e118, A. T. Vermeulen 118,
J. C. Vermeulen118, M. C. Vetterli 149,av, N. Viaux Maira 144b, M. Vicente Barreto Pinto 52, I. Vichou 170,*,T . V i c k e y146,
O. E. Vickey Boeriu146, G. H. A. Viehhauser 132,S . V i e l18, L. Vigani 132, M. Villa 23a,23b, M. Villaplana Perez 66a,66b,
E. Vilucchi49, M. G. Vincter 33, V . B. Vinogradov77, A. Vishwakarma 44, C. Vittori 23a,23b, I. Vivarelli 153, S. Vlachos 10,
M. V ogel179, P. V okac 139, G. V olpi 14, S. E. von Buddenbrock 32c, E. V on Toerne 24, V . V orobel140, K. V orobev 110,
M. V os171, J. H. V ossebeld 88, N. Vranjes 16, M. Vranjes Milosavljevic 16,V . V r b a139, M. Vreeswijk 118, T. Šﬁligoj 89,
R. Vuillermet35, I. Vukotic36, T. Ženiš28a,L . Ž i v k o v i ´c16, P. Wagner24, W. Wagner179, J. Wagner-Kuhr112, H. Wahlberg86,
S. Wahrmund46, K. Wakamiya 80, V . M. Walbrecht113, J. Walder 87,R . W a l k e r112,S . D . W a l k e r91, W. Walkowiak 148,
V . Wallangen43a,43b, A .M .W a n g57, C. Wang58b, F. Wang178, H. Wang18, H. Wang3, J. Wang154, J. Wang59b, P. Wang41,
Q. Wang125, R.-J. Wang 133, R. Wang 58a, R. Wang 6, S .M .W a n g155, W. T. Wang58a, W. Wang 15c,ae, W. X. Wang 58a,ae,
Y . Wang58a,am, Z. Wang 58c, C. Wanotayaroj 44, A. Warburton 101,C . P . W a r d31, D. R. Wardrope 92, A. Washbrook 48,
P. M. Watkins21,A . T . W a t s o n21,M . F . W a t s o n21, G. Watts 145, S. Watts 98, B. M. Waugh 92, A. F. Webb 11, S. Webb 97,
C. Weber180, M. S. Weber 20, S. A. Weber 33, S. M. Weber 59a, A. R. Weidberg 132, J. Weingarten 45, M. Weirich 97,
C. Weiser50, P. S. Wells 35, T. Wenaus 29, T. Wengler 35, S. Wenig 35,N . W e r m e s24, M. D. Werner 76, P. Werner 35,
M. Wessels59a,T . D . W e s t o n20, K. Whalen 128, N. L. Whallon 145, A .M .W h a r t o n87, A. S. White 103, A. White 8,
M. J. White1, R. White 144b, D. Whiteson 168, B. W. Whitmore 87, F. J. Wickens 141, W. Wiedenmann 178, M. Wielers 141,
C. Wiglesworth39, L. A. M. Wiik-Fuchs 50, F. Wilk98, H .G .W i l k e n s35, L. J. Wilkins91, H. H. Williams134, S. Williams31,
C. Willis104, S. Willocq 100, J. A. Wilson 21, I. Wingerter-Seez 5, E. Winkels 153, F. Winklmeier 128,O . J . W i n s t o n153,
B. T. Winter50, M. Wittgen 150, M. Wobisch 93,A . W o l f97, T .M .H .W o l f118,R . W o l f f99, J. Wollrath 50, M. W. Wolter 82,
H. Wolters137a,137c, V .W .S .W o n g172, N. L. Woods 143, S .D .W o r m21,B . K . W o s i e k82,K . W . W o ´zniak82, K. Wraight 55,
M. Wu36,S . L . W u178,X . W u52,Y . W u58a, T. R. Wyatt 98, B. M. Wynne 48, S. Xella 39,Z . X i103,L . X i a175,D . X u15a,
H. Xu58a,e,L . X u 29,T . X u 142,W . X u 103,Z . X u 150, B. Yabsley 154, S. Yacoob 32a, K. Yajima 130, D. P. Yallup 92,
D. Yamaguchi162, Y . Yamaguchi162, A. Yamamoto 79, T. Yamanaka 160, F. Yamane 80, M. Yamatani 160, T. Yamazaki 160,
Y . Yamazaki80,Z . Y a n25, H .J .Y a n g58c,58d, H. T. Yang18, S. Yang 75, Y . Yang160, Z. Yang 17,W - M . Y a o18,Y . C . Y a p44,
Y. Ya s u79, E. Yatsenko58c,58d,J .Y e41,S .Y e29, I. Yeletskikh77, E. Yigitbasi25, E. Yildirim97, K. Yorita176, K. Yoshihara134,
C. J. S. Young35, C. Young 150,J . Y u8,J . Y u76,X . Y u e59a, S .P .Y .Y u e n24, B. Zabinski 82, G. Zacharis 10, E. Zaffaroni 52,
R. Zaidan14, A .M .Z a i t s e v121,ao, T. Zakareishvili 156b, N. Zakharchuk 33, S. Zambito 57, D. Zanzi 35, D. R. Zaripovas 55,
S. V . Zeißner45, C. Zeitnitz 179, G. Zemaityte 132, J. C. Zeng 170, Q. Zeng 150, O. Zenin 121,D . Z e r w a s129, M. Zgubiˇc132,
D. F. Zhang58b, D. Zhang 103, F. Zhang178, G. Zhang 58a, G. Zhang 15b, H. Zhang 15c, J. Zhang 6, L. Zhang 15c, L. Zhang 58a,
M. Zhang170, P. Zhang15c, R. Zhang58a, R. Zhang24, X. Zhang58b, Y . Zhang15d, Z. Zhang129, P. Zhao47, Y . Zhao58b,129,ak,
Z. Zhao58a, A. Zhemchugov77, Z. Zheng103, D. Zhong170, B. Zhou103, C. Zhou178, M. S. Zhou15d, M. Zhou152, N. Zhou58c,
Y . Zhou7,C .G .Z h u58b,H .L .Z h u58a,H .Z h u15a,J .Z h u103,Y .Z h u58a, X. Zhuang15a, K. Zhukov108, V . Zhulanov120a,120b,
A. Zibell174, D. Zieminska 63, N. I. Zimine 77, S. Zimmermann 50, Z. Zinonos 113, M. Ziolkowski 148, G. Zobernig 178,
A. Zoccoli23a,23b, K. Zoch51, T. G. Zorbas146,R .Z o u36, M. Zur Nedden19, L. Zwalinski35
123

===== PAGE 35 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 35 of 40 639
1 Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia
2 Physics Department, SUNY Albany, Albany, NY, USA
3 Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
4 (a)Department of Physics, Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey;(b)Istanbul Aydin University, Istanbul, Turkey;(c)Division
of Physics, TOBB University of Economics and Technology, Ankara, Turkey
5 LAPP, Université Grenoble Alpes, Université Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS/IN2P3, Annecy, France
6 High Energy Physics Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL, USA
7 Department of Physics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
8 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX, USA
9 Physics Department, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
10 Physics Department, National Technical University of Athens, Zografou, Greece
11 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA
12 (a)Bahcesehir University, Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey;(b)Istanbul Bilgi University,
Faculty of Engineering and Natural Sciences, Istanbul, Turkey;(c)Department of Physics, Bogazici University, Istanbul,
Turkey;(d)Department of Physics Engineering, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey
13 Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
14 Institut de Física d’Altes Energies (IFAE), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain
15 (a)Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; (b)Physics Department, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China;(c)Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China;(d)University of Chinese
Academy of Science (UCAS), Beijing, China
16 Institute of Physics, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia
17 Department for Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
18 Physics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA
19 Institut für Physik, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany
20 Albert Einstein Center for Fundamental Physics and Laboratory for High Energy Physics, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland
21 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
22 Centro de Investigaciónes, Universidad Antonio Nariño, Bogota, Colombia
23 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia, Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Bologna, Bologna,
Italy
24 Physikalisches Institut, Universität Bonn, Bonn, Germany
25 Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA
26 Department of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, USA
27 (a)Transilvania University of Brasov, Brasov, Romania;(b)Horia Hulubei National Institute of Physics and Nuclear
Engineering, Bucharest, Romania; (c)Department of Physics, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi, Iasi,
Romania; (d)National Institute for Research and Development of Isotopic and Molecular Technologies, Physics
Department, Cluj-Napoca, Romania; (e)University Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania;(f)West University in
Timisoara, Timisoara, Romania
28 (a)Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovak Republic;(b)Department of
Subnuclear Physics, Institute of Experimental Physics of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Kosice, Slovak Republic
29 Physics Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY, USA
30 Departamento de Física, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina
31 Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK
32 (a)Department of Physics, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa;(b)Department of Mechanical
Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg, South Africa;(c)School of Physics, University of the
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
33 Department of Physics, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada
34 (a)Faculté des Sciences Ain Chock, Réseau Universitaire de Physique des Hautes Energies-Université Hassan II,
Casablanca, Morocco; (b)Centre National de l’Energie des Sciences Techniques Nucleaires (CNESTEN), Rabat,
Morocco; (c)Faculté des Sciences Semlalia, Université Cadi Ayyad, LPHEA-Marrakech, Morocco;(d)Faculté des
Sciences, Université Mohamed Premier and LPTPM, Oujda, Morocco;(e)Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed V,
Rabat, Morocco
35 CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
123

===== PAGE 36 =====
639 Page 36 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
36 Enrico Fermi Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA
37 LPC, Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS/IN2P3, Clermont-Ferrand, France
38 Nevis Laboratory, Columbia University, Irvington, NY, USA
39 Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
40 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università della Calabria, Rende, Italy;(b)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Cosenza, Laboratori
Nazionali di Frascati, Italy
41 Physics Department, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, USA
42 Physics Department, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, TX, USA
43 (a)Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Sweden;(b)Oskar Klein Centre, Stockholm, Sweden
44 Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg and Zeuthen, Germany
45 Lehrstuhl für Experimentelle Physik IV, Technische Universität Dortmund, Dortmund, Germany
46 Institut für Kern- und Teilchenphysik, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany
47 Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA
48 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK
49 INFN e Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
50 Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
51 II. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
52 Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Genève, Switzerland
53 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Genova, Genova, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Genova, Genoa, Italy
54 II. Physikalisches Institut, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, Giessen, Germany
55 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK
56 LPSC, Université Grenoble Alpes, CNRS/IN2P3, Grenoble INP, Grenoble, France
57 Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA
58 (a)Department of Modern Physics and State Key Laboratory of Particle Detection and Electronics, University of Science
and Technology of China, Hefei, China;(b)Institute of Frontier and Interdisciplinary Science and Key Laboratory of
Particle Physics and Particle Irradiation (MOE), Shandong University, Qingdao, China;(c)School of Physics and
Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, KLPPAC-MoE, SKLPPC, Shanghai, China;(d)Tsung-Dao Lee Institute,
Shanghai, China
59 (a)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany;(b)Physikalisches Institut,
Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany
60 Faculty of Applied Information Science, Hiroshima Institute of Technology, Hiroshima, Japan
61 (a)Department of Physics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China;(b)Department of Physics,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China;(c)Department of Physics and Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China
62 Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
63 Department of Physics, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA
64 (a)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Udine, Sezione di Trieste, Udine, Italy;(b)ICTP, Trieste, Italy;(c)Dipartimento di Chimica,
Fisica e Ambiente, Università di Udine, Udine, Italy
65 (a)INFN Sezione di Lecce, Zona Monte, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università del Salento, Lecce,
Italy
66 (a)INFN Sezione di Milano, Milan, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Milano, Milano, Italy
67 (a)INFN Sezione di Napoli, Naples, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Napoli, Napoli, Italy
68 (a)INFN Sezione di Pavia, Pavia, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Pavia, Pavia, Italy
69 (a)INFN Sezione di Pisa, Pisa, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica E. Fermi, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy
70 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma, Rome, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Università di Roma, Roma, Italy
71 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma, Tor Vergata, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma Tor Vergata, Roma, Italy
72 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tre, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università Roma Tre, Roma, Italy
73 (a)INFN-TIFPA, Povo, Italy;(b)Università degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy
74 Institut für Astro- und Teilchenphysik, Leopold-Franzens-Universität, Innsbruck, Austria
75 University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
76 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA
77 Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
123

===== PAGE 37 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 37 of 40 639
78 (a)Departamento de Engenharia Elétrica, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora (UFJF), Juiz de Fora,
Brazil; (b)Universidade Federal do Rio De Janeiro COPPE/EE/IF, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;(c)Universidade Federal de São
João del Rei (UFSJ), São João del Rei, Brazil; (d)Instituto de Física, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil
79 KEK, High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan
80 Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan
81 (a)AGH University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, Krakow,
Poland; (b)Marian Smoluchowski Institute of Physics, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
82 Institute of Nuclear Physics Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland
83 Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
84 Kyoto University of Education, Kyoto, Japan
85 Research Center for Advanced Particle Physics and Department of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka , Japan
86 Instituto de Física La Plata, Universidad Nacional de La Plata and CONICET, La Plata, Argentina
87 Physics Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK
88 Oliver Lodge Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK
89 Department of Experimental Particle Physics, Jožef Stefan Institute and Department of Physics, University of Ljubljana,
Ljubljana, Slovenia
90 School of Physics and Astronomy, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK
91 Department of Physics, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK
92 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, UK
93 Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, LA, USA
94 Fysiska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Lund, Sweden
95 Centre de Calcul de l’Institut National de Physique Nucléaire et de Physique des Particules (IN2P3), Villeurbanne,
France
96 Departamento de Física Teorica C-15 and CIAFF, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
97 Institut für Physik, Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany
98 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK
99 CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
100 Department of Physics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA
101 Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada
102 School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
103 Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
104 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
105 B.I. Stepanov Institute of Physics, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, Minsk, Belarus
106 Research Institute for Nuclear Problems of Byelorussian State University, Minsk, Belarus
107 Group of Particle Physics, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada
108 P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia
109 Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics (ITEP), Moscow, Russia
110 National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, Moscow, Russia
111 D.V . Skobeltsyn Institute of Nuclear Physics, M.V . Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia
112 Fakultät für Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, München, Germany
113 Max-Planck-Institut für Physik (Werner-Heisenberg-Institut), München, Germany
114 Nagasaki Institute of Applied Science, Nagasaki, Japan
115 Graduate School of Science and Kobayashi-Maskawa Institute, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
116 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA
117 Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University Nijmegen/Nikhef, Nijmegen, The
Netherlands
118 Nikhef National Institute for Subatomic Physics and University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
119 Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA
120 (a)Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics and NSU, SB RAS, Novosibirsk, Russia;(b)Novosibirsk State University
Novosibirsk, Novosibirsk, Russia
121 Institute for High Energy Physics of the National Research Centre Kurchatov Institute, Protvino, Russia
122 Department of Physics, New York University, New York, NY, USA
123 Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA
123

===== PAGE 38 =====
639 Page 38 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
124 Faculty of Science, Okayama University, Okayama, Japan
125 Homer L. Dodge Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA
126 Department of Physics, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, USA
127 Palacký University, RCPTM, Joint Laboratory of Optics, Olomouc, Czech Republic
128 Center for High Energy Physics, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, USA
129 LAL, Université Paris-Sud, CNRS/IN2P3, Université Paris-Saclay, Orsay, France
130 Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
131 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
132 Department of Physics, Oxford University, Oxford, UK
133 LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Paris Diderot Sorbonne Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
134 Department of Physics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA
135 Konstantinov Nuclear Physics Institute of National Research Centre “Kurchatov Institute”, PNPI, St. Petersburg, Russia
136 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
137 (a)Laboratório de Instrumentação e Física Experimental de Partículas-LIP, Lisbon, Portugal; (b)Departamento de Física,
Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal;(c)Departamento de Física, Universidade de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; (d)Centro de Física Nuclear da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal;(e)Departamento de Física,
Universidade do Minho, Braga, Portugal;(f)Departamento de Física Teorica y del Cosmos, Universidad de Granada,
Granada (Spain), Portugal; (g)Dep Física and CEFITEC of Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia, Universidade Nova de
Lisboa, Caparica, Portugal
138 Institute of Physics, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague, Czech Republic
139 Czech Technical University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic
140 Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Prague, Czech Republic
141 Particle Physics Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, UK
142 IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
143 Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA
144 (a)Departamento de Física, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile;(b)Departamento de Física,
Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, Valparaíso, Chile
145 Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, W A, USA
146 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Shefﬁeld, Shefﬁeld, UK
147 Department of Physics, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan
148 Department Physik, Universität Siegen, Siegen, Germany
149 Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada
150 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford, CA, USA
151 Physics Department, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden
152 Departments of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA
153 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK
154 School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
155 Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
156 (a)E. Andronikashvili Institute of Physics, Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(b)High Energy
Physics Institute, Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
157 Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel
158 Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
159 Department of Physics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece
160 International Center for Elementary Particle Physics and Department of Physics, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
161 Graduate School of Science and Technology, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan
162 Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan
163 Tomsk State University, Tomsk, Russia
164 Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada
165 (a)TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Canada;(b)Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada
166 Division of Physics and Tomonaga Center for the History of the Universe, Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences,
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan
167 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA
168 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA
123

===== PAGE 39 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639 Page 39 of 40 639
169 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden
170 Department of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA
171 Instituto de Física Corpuscular (IFIC), Centro Mixto Universidad de Valencia-CSIC, Valencia, Spain
172 Department of Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada
173 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada
174 Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany
175 Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
176 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
177 Department of Particle Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
178 Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA
179 Fakultät für Mathematik und Naturwissenschaften, Fachgruppe Physik, Bergische Universität Wuppertal, Wuppertal,
Germany
180 Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA
181 Yerevan Physics Institute, Yerevan, Armenia
a Also at Borough of Manhattan Community College, City University of New York, NY , USA
b Also at California State University, East Bay, USA
c Also at Centre for High Performance Computing, CSIR Campus, Rosebank, Cape Town, South Africa
d Also at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
e Also at CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
f Also at Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Genève, Switzerland
g Also at Departament de Fisica de la Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
h Also at Departamento de Física Teorica y del Cosmos, Universidad de Granada, Granada (Spain), Spain
i Also at Departamento de Física, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal
j Also at Department of Applied Physics and Astronomy, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates
k Also at Department of Financial and Management Engineering, University of the Aegean, Chios, Greece
l Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY , USA
m Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Shefﬁeld, Shefﬁeld, UK
n Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno CA, USA
o Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Sacramento CA, USA
p Also at Department of Physics, King’s College London, London, UK
q Also at Department of Physics, St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University, St. Petersburg, Russia
r Also at Department of Physics, Stanford University, USA
s Also at Department of Physics, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland
t Also at Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, USA
u Also at Giresun University, Faculty of Engineering, Giresun, Turkey
v Also at Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
w Also at Hellenic Open University, Patras, Greece
x Also at Horia Hulubei National Institute of Physics and Nuclear Engineering, Bucharest, Romania
y Also at II. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
z Also at Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avancats, ICREA, Barcelona, Spain
aa Also at Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
ab Also at Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University Nijmegen/Nikhef, Nijmegen,
The Netherlands
ac Also at Institute for Particle and Nuclear Physics, Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Budapest, Hungary
ad Also at Institute of Particle Physics (IPP), Canada
ae Also at Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
af Also at Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
ag Also at Institute of Theoretical Physics, Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
ah Also at Instituto de Física Teórica de la Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Spain
ai Also at Istanbul University, Dept. of Physics, Istanbul, Turkey
aj Also at Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, Dubna, Russia
ak Also at LAL, Université Paris-Sud, CNRS/IN2P3, Université Paris-Saclay, Orsay, France
123

===== PAGE 40 =====
639 Page 40 of 40 Eur. Phys. J. C (2019) 79 :639
al Also at Louisiana Tech University, Ruston LA, USA
am Also at LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Paris Diderot Sorbonne Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
an Also at Manhattan College, New York NY , USA
ao Also at Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology State University, Dolgoprudny, Russia
ap Also at National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, Moscow, Russia
aq Also at Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
ar Also at School of Physics, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China
as Also at The City College of New York, New York NY , USA
at Also at The Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter (CICQM), Beijing, China
au Also at Tomsk State University, Tomsk, and Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology State University, Dolgoprudny,
Russia
av Also at TRIUMF, Vancouver BC, Canada
aw Also at Universita di Napoli Parthenope, Napoli, Italy
∗Deceased
123