

===== PAGE 1 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83:761
https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-023-11837-9
Regular Article - Experimental Physics
New techniques for jet calibration with the ATLAS detector
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
CERN, 1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland
Received: 31 March 2023 / Accepted: 13 July 2023 / Published online: 29 August 2023
© CERN for the beneﬁt of the ATLAS Collaboration 2023
Abstract A determination of the jet energy scale is pre-
sented using proton–proton collision data with a centre-of-
mass energy of√ s = 13 TeV , corresponding to an integrated
luminosity of 140 fb−1 collected using the ATLAS detector
at the LHC. Jets are reconstructed using the ATLAS particle-
ﬂow method that combines charged-particle tracks and topo-
clusters formed from energy deposits in the calorimeter cells.
The anti-k
t jet algorithm with radius parameter R = 0.4i s
used to deﬁne the jet. Novel jet energy scale calibration strate-
gies developed for the LHC Run 2 are reported that lay the
foundation for the jet calibration in Run 3. Jets are calibrated
with a series of simulation-based corrections, including state-
of-the-art techniques in jet calibration such as machine learn-
ing methods and novel in situ calibrations to achieve better
performance than the baseline calibration derived using up
to 81 fb
−1 of Run 2 data. The performance of these new
techniques is then examined in the in situ measurements by
exploiting the transverse momentum balance between a jet
and a reference object. The b-quark jet energy scale using
particle ﬂow jets is measured for the ﬁrst time with around
1% precision using γ+jet events.
Contents
1 Introduction ..................... 1
2 The ATLAS detector ................. 2
3 Data samples and simulated events ......... 2
3.1 Data samples .................. 2
3.2 Monte Carlo simulation ............. 2
3.3 Jet reconstruction ................ 3
4 The simulation-based calibration .......... 4
4.1 Event selection ................. 4
4.2 Estimating the median p
T density and the pile-
up density correction .............. 4
4.3 Residual pile-up correction ........... 5
4.3.1 The 1D residual pile-up correction .... 5
4.3.2 The 3D residual pile-up correction .... 6
⋆ e-mail: atlas.publications@cern.ch
4.3.3 Comparison of the different residual pile-
up corrections ............... 7
4.4 The jet energy scale and ηcalibration ...... 7
4.4.1 Polynomial ﬁts .............. 7
4.4.2 Penalised splines ............. 7
4.4.3 Comparison of calibrations ........ 8
4.4.4 Absolute MC jet ηcalibration ...... 9
4.5 The global property calibration ......... 1 0
4.5.1 The global sequential calibration ..... 1 0
4.5.2 The global neural network calibration .. 1 2
4.5.3 Comparison of the methods ....... 1 2
4.5.4 Flavour uncertainties ........... 1 4
5 In situ analysis .................... 1 4
5.1 η-intercalibration ................ 1 6
5.2 Z/γ+jet balance ................ 1 7
5.3 b-quark jet energy scale in γ+jet balance .... 2 2
6 Conclusion ...................... 2 2
References ........................ 2 6
1 Introduction
The energetic proton–proton (pp) collisions produced by the
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) yield ﬁnal states that are pre-
dominantly characterised by jets, which are collimated sprays
of charged and neutral hadrons and their decay products.
Jets constitute an essential piece of the physics programme
carried out using the ATLAS detector, and a precise under-
standing of jet reconstruction is critical for a wide variety of
processes. Measurements of both the jet energy scale (JES)
and resolution (JER) of these complex objects are therefore
essential for precision measurements of the Standard Model
and for searches for new phenomena beyond it. Several new
methods are presented for improving the jet energy scale cal-
ibration and evaluating their performance in simulation and
data, paving the way to achieving a better precision on the JES
for Run 3 and beyond. These techniques were developed for
jets reconstructed with the anti-k
t algorithm [1,2] with radius
parameter R = 0.4 using particle ﬂow inputs [3,4]. Previous
123

===== PAGE 2 =====
761 Page 2 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
calibration strategies by the ATLAS Collaboration, that used
up to 81 fb−1 data [4–9], are extended and improved by by
taking advantage of the full Run 2 data sample of 140 fb−1.
The jet energy scale calibration consists of a series of cal-
ibration steps. The ﬁrst stage of the calibration uses simula-
tion to derive corrections to the jet energy scale to reduce the
impact of pile-up, detector effects, and other parameters. The
second stage of the calibration is a residual in situ calibra-
tion, correcting for remaining differences between data and
Monte Carlo (MC) simulation, derived using well-measured
reference objects, including photons and Z bosons.
The structure of the paper is as follows. Section2 describes
the ATLAS detector, and Sect.3 describes the recorded data
and the MC simulation samples, and the inputs and algo-
rithms used to reconstruct the jets. Section 4 describes the
methods used and the result of the simulation-based calibra-
tion, Sect.5 describes the in situ calibration, and conclusions
are given in Sect.6.
2 The ATLAS detector
The ATLAS detector [10] at the LHC covers nearly the entire
solid angle around the collision point.
1 It consists of an
inner tracking detector surrounded by a thin superconduct-
ing solenoid, electromagnetic and hadron calorimeters, and a
muon spectrometer incorporating three large superconduct-
ing air-core toroidal magnets.
The inner-detector system (ID) is immersed i na2T
axial magnetic ﬁeld and provides charged-particle tracking
in the range of |η| < 2.5. The high-granularity silicon pixel
detector covers the vertex region and typically provides four
measurements per track, the ﬁrst hit normally being in the
insertable B-layer (IBL) installed before Run 2 [ 11,12]. It
is followed by the silicon microstrip tracker (SCT), which
usually provides eight measurements per track. These sili-
con detectors are complemented by the transition radiation
tracker (TRT), which enables radially extended track recon-
struction up to |η|= 2.0. The TRT also provides electron
identiﬁcation information based on the fraction of hits above
a higher energy-deposit threshold corresponding to transition
radiation.
The calorimeter system covers the pseudorapidity range
of |η| < 4.9. In the region |η| < 3.2, electromag-
netic calorimetry is provided by barrel and endcap high-
1 ATLAS uses a right-handed coordinate system with its origin at the
nominal interaction point (IP) in the centre of the detector and the z-
axis along the beam pipe. The x-axis points from the IP to the centre of
the LHC ring, and the y-axis points upwards. Cylindrical coordinates
(r,φ) are used in the transverse plane, φ being the azimuthal angle
around the z-axis. The pseudorapidity is deﬁned in terms of the polar
angle θas η=− ln tan(θ/2). Angular distance is measured in units of
/Delta1R ≡
√
(/Delta1η)2 + (/Delta1φ)2.
granularity lead/liquid-argon (LAr) calorimeters, with an
additional thin LAr presampler covering |η| < 1.8 to cor-
rect for energy loss in material upstream of the calorime-
ters. Hadron calorimetry is provided by the steel/scintillator-
tile calorimeter, segmented into three barrel structures within
|η|= 1.7, and two copper/LAr hadron endcap calorimeters.
The solid angle coverage is completed with forward cop-
per/LAr and tungsten/LAr calorimeter modules optimised for
electromagnetic and hadronic energy measurements respec-
tively.
The muon spectrometer (MS) comprises separate trigger
and high-precision tracking chambers measuring the deﬂec-
tion of muons in a magnetic ﬁeld generated by the super-
conducting air-core toroidal magnets. The ﬁeld integral of
the toroids ranges between 2.0 and 6.0 T m across most of
the detector. Three layers of precision chambers, each con-
sisting of layers of monitored drift tubes, cover the region
|η| < 2.7, complemented by cathode-strip chambers in the
forward region, where the background is highest. The muon
trigger system covers the range of |η| < 2.4 with resistive-
plate chambers in the barrel, and thin-gap chambers in the
endcap regions.
Interesting events are selected by the ﬁrst-level trigger sys-
tem implemented in custom hardware, followed by selections
made by algorithms implemented in software in the high-
level trigger [13]. The ﬁrst-level trigger accepts events from
the up-to 40 MHz bunch crossings at a rate below 100 kHz,
which is further reduced by the high-level trigger to record
events to disk at about 1 kHz.
An extensive software suite [14] is used in the reconstruc-
tion and analysis of real and simulated data, in detector oper-
ations, and in the trigger and data acquisition systems of the
experiment.
3 Data samples and simulated events
3.1 Data samples
The data used for the calibration study were collected by
ATLAS in the pp collisions at √
s = 13 TeV from 2015 to
2018 with all subdetectors operational, corresponding to an
integrated luminosity of 140 fb
−1. The proton bunch cross-
ing interval was 25 ns during the data taking. The average
number of interactions per bunch crossing (μ) for the Run 2
data is 34. These conditions, and those of the detector conﬁg-
uration and reconstruction thresholds, are taken into account
in producing and reconstructing simulated data [15].
3.2 Monte Carlo simulation
The Monte-Carlo (MC) based calibration uses MC simulated
dijet and multijet events. Pythia v8.230 [ 16]i su s e da s
123

===== PAGE 3 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 3 of 41 761
the nominal MC generator for simulating dijets. Samples of
2 → 2 dijet events are simulated using the A14 tune [17] and
the NNPDF 2.3 [18] parton distribution function (PDF) set.
Decays of heavy-ﬂavour hadrons are modeled using EvtGen
[19].
Several alternative samples are used to study the impact
of the MC simulation on the calibration, and to determine
uncertainties based on this. Two different dijet samples are
simulated using the Sherpa 2.2.5 [20] generator. The matrix
element calculation was included for the 2 → 2 process at
leading-order, and the default Sherpa parton shower [ 21]
based on Catani–Seymour dipole factorisation was used for
the showering with p
T ordering, using the CT 14nnlo PDF
set [22]. The ﬁrst of these samples made use of the dedi-
cated Sherpa AHADIC model for hadronisation [23], based
on cluster fragmentation. A second sample was generated
with the same conﬁguration but using the Sherpa interface
to the Lund string fragmentation model of Pythia 6 [24]
and its decay tables. These two sets of samples were used
to evaluate uncertainties stemming from the hadronisation
modelling.
Two sets of samples are simulated using Herwig 7.1.6
[25–27] with the NNPDF 2.3lo PDF set. These samples
include the 2 → 2 process at the matrix element level, and
either the default angular-ordered parton shower [ 28]o ra
dipole parton shower [ 29,30] using splitting kernels based
on the Catani–Seymour subtraction scheme [ 31,32], and in
both the cases, using a cluster hadronisation.
Alternative samples of multijet production at NLO accu-
racy were produced withPowheg Box v2[33,34] interfaced
to Pythia 8. These were generated with the dijet process as
implemented in Powheg Box v2 [35]. The p
T of the under-
lying Born conﬁguration was taken as the renormalisation
and factorisation scales and the NNPDF 3.0nlo [36]P D F
was used. Pythia with the A14 tune and the NNPDF 2.3lo
PDF was used for the shower and multi-parton interac-
tions. These samples included per-event weight variations
for different perturbative scales in the matrix element, dif-
ferent parton distribution functions and their uncertainties,
and the Pythia perturbative shower uncertainties. This mul-
tijet sample is used as the nominal MC sample for in situ
η-intercalibration, while Powheg Box v2[33,34] interfaced
to Herwig [27] with an angular-ordered parton shower [28]
and the NNPDF 2.3lo PDF is used as an alternative sam-
ple.
For the in situZ+jet analysis, samples ofZ boson with jets
(Z+jet) are produced withMadGraph + Pythia8[ 37]u s i n g
the NNPDF 3.0nnlo PDF set [ 20] and the AZNLO set of
tuned parameters [38]. Sherpa 2.2.11 is used as the alterna-
tive MC sample. The nominalγ+jets samples are generated
with Pythia v8.230 [16] using the A14 set of tuned param-
eters [17] and NNPDF 2.3 PDF set. The γ+jet samples are
produced for the direct photon component and the fragmen-
tation photon component separately. The alternative sample
used in γ+jet events is Sherpa 2.2.2 with NNPDF 3.0nnlo
PDF set [20].
All samples are reconstructed using a full detector simula-
tion and superimposed minimum-bias interactions simulated
using Pythia 8 with the A3 set of tuned parameters [39] and
NNPDF 2.3lo PDF set to represent multiple pp interactions
during the same or nearby bunch crossings (pile-up). The
distribution of the average number of pile-up interactions in
simulation is reweighted during data analysis to match that
observed in the Run 2 data.
3.3 Jet reconstruction
The jets in these studies are reconstructed with the anti- kt
algorithm with a radius parameterR = 0.4 as implemented in
the FastJet software package [40]. Four-momentum objects
are used as inputs to the algorithm, and may be particles at the
generator level of the MC, charged-particle tracks, calorime-
ter energy deposits, or algorithmic combinations of the lat-
ter two, as in the case of the particle-ﬂow (PFlow) recon-
struction technique. Particles at the MC generator level are
referred to as truth particles. Reconstructed jets use PFlow
objects (PFOs) as inputs to jet reconstruction, which combine
measurements from the tracker and the calorimeter to form
the input signals for jet reconstruction. Speciﬁcally, energy
deposited in the calorimeter by charged particles is subtracted
from the observed topo-clusters and replaced by the momenta
of tracks that are matched to those topo-clusters, as described
in Ref. [3], and with the updates described in Ref. [4]. These
resulting PFlow jets show improved energy and angular res-
olution, reconstruction efﬁciency, and pile-up stability com-
pared with jets reconstructed using only calorimeter infor-
mation.
Charged particle tracks are used for both the PFlow recon-
struction and for deriving calibrations. These tracks are
reconstructed in the full acceptance of the inner detector
|η| < 2.5, and are required to have a p
T > 500 MeV unless
otherwise stated, and must satisfy criteria based on the num-
ber of hits in the ID subdetectors. In addition, tracks must
satisfy |z
0sinθ| < 2 mm, where z0 is the distance of clos-
est approach of the track to the hard-scatter primary vertex
along the z-axis. Tracks used in the calibration are matched
to jets using ghost association, a procedure that treats them as
four-vectors of inﬁnitesimal magnitude during the jet recon-
struction and assigns them to the jet with which they are
clustered [41].
Generator-level jets, referred to as truth jets, are recon-
structed using stable ﬁnal-state particles, deﬁned as those
with cτ> 10 mm, excluding muons, neutrinos, and particles
from pile-up interactions. Generator-level jets are selected
with p
T > 7 GeV and |η| < 4.5, while reconstructed jets
used for the MC calibration are selected with |η| < 4.5.
123

===== PAGE 4 =====
761 Page 4 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
4 The simulation-based calibration
This section details the simulation-based jet energy scale
calibration, which restores the average jet energy to that of
truth jets. The event selection for these steps is described in
Sect. 4.1, and the calibration is done in four steps. The ﬁrst
two steps apply pile-up corrections to remove the excess p
T
due to additional pp interactions in the same (in-time) or
nearby (out-of-time) bunch crossings. The ﬁrst pile-up cor-
rection, described in Sect. 4.2, applies a subtraction based
on the median p
T density measured in the event and the jet
area (the ‘pile-up density correction’) [ 41,42], minimizing
the sensitivity to the model of the pile-up used in the sim-
ulation. Next, a correction for residual dependence on the
number of reconstructed primary vertices in the event (NPV)
and μis applied (the ‘residual pile-up correction’), based on
corrections derived using simulated samples, as described in
Sect. 4.3. The third step, the absolute JES calibration detailed
in Sect. 4.4, corrects jets so that they agree, on average, in
energy and direction with truth jets from dijet MC events.
Finally, the global calibration improves the jet pT resolution
and related uncertainties by reducing the dependence of the
reconstructed jet response on observables constructed using
information from the tracking, calorimeter, and muon cham-
ber detector systems, as introduced in Sect. 4.5.
4.1 Event selection
All stages of the simulation-based jet energy scale calibration
use the same event selection. The MC simulation is used to
determine the energy scale and resolution of jets by compar-
ing PFlow jets with truth jets. Truth and reconstructed jets are
required to satisfy|η| < 4.5 to be fully contained in the detec-
tor acceptance, and truth jets are additionally required to have
p
T > 7 GeV. Uncalibrated jets have a positive energy, but
can become negative in energy after applying the corrections
described in Sects. 4.2–4.3. Biases are reduced in the deter-
mination of the average jet energy response ( E
reco/Etrue)a t
low energies, by requiring reconstructed jets to have pT > 0
after the pile-up density correction described in Sect. 4.2,
but making no requirement on the pT after the correction
described in Sect. 4.3.
Events are required to have at least one reconstructed pri-
mary vertex with at least two matched tracks with pT >
500 MeV. In simulated reconstructed events, the primary ver-
tex is the reconstructed primary vertex with the largest sum
of squared track momentum, while at the truth level, the pri-
mary vertex corresponds to that of the simulated hard-scatter
process, and not the collision with the highest momentum
transfer. This results in some events where the pile-up col-
lision has a larger momentum transfer than the hard-scatter
collision. For MC samples, the reconstructed and truth pri-
mary vertices are required to havez-positions within 0.2m m
of each other. Events are required to have at least two recon-
structed jets, and at least one truth jet. Truth jets are geomet-
rically matched to PFlow jets using the angular distance/Delta1R
with the requirement /Delta1R < 0.3. In addition, truth jets are
required to be isolated from all other truth jets by/Delta1R > 1.0,
while reconstructed jets are required to be isolated from all
reconstructed jets by /Delta1R > 0.6. To reduce the contribution
of events where the pile-up collision has a larger momentum
transfer than the hard-scatter collision, the average p
T of the
two leading reconstructed jets is required to be no larger than
1.4 × ptruth, leading
T .
4.2 Estimating the median pT density and the pile-up
density correction
Pile-up interactions change the jet energy scale, and jet recon-
struction is affected by additionalpp interactions in the same
or nearby bunch crossings. The ﬁrst stage of the jet calibra-
tion, referred to as the ‘pile-up density correction’, subtracts
the expected contribution from pile-up based on the area of
the jet and the median p
T density in the event [41]. To com-
pute the jet area A, a dense, uniformly distributed in η× φ
population of inﬁnitesimally soft ghost particles is overlaid
on top of the event. Then, A is deﬁned as the transverse
momentum of the sum of the four-momenta of all ghost con-
stituents matched with a given jet after clustering, normalised
by the ghost constituent transverse momentum density.
The median pile-up pT density ρ is estimated for each
event by the median pT density ( pT/A) of all jets clustered
with the kt algorithm [43,44] with a radius parameter of 0.4:
ρ = median
{ pjet
T,i
Ajet
i
}
,
where the index i enumerates over the jets. For this cal-
culation, only jets with |η| < 2 are used, since ρ falls off
steeply beyond this region, due to a combination of physics
and detector effects.
Assuming the pile-up is a uniform, diffuse background,
the pile-up contribution to the energy of the jet can then be
approximated by the product of the jet area times the median
p
T density. The pile-up density-corrected jet pT, parea
T ,i s
then deﬁned as
parea
T = pT − ρ× A.
The ratio of the parea
T to the uncorrected jet pT is applied as
a scale factor to the jet four-momentum and does hence not
affect its direction.
Previously, the inputs to the ρ calculation were the same
as those used to build jets: the neutral PFlow objects and
the charged PFlow objects that satisfy |z0 sin θ| < 2m m
[4]. However, this results in a bias from the inclusion of
hard-scatter tracks, shifting the median pT density to higher
123

===== PAGE 5 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 5 of 41 761
values, particularly when the hard-scatter process has a
large jet multiplicity. To prevent such biases, the ‘pile-up
sideband’ (PUSB) ρ deﬁnition is studied, which uses neu-
tral PFlow objects, and charged PFlow objects that satisfy
2m m < |z
0 sin θ| < 4 mm as inputs. The total amount of
pile-up using the sideband cuts is expected to be similar to
the nominal criteria, since a similar amount of pile-up will
meet these criteria. This ensures a minimal loss of the event-
by-event correlation of the charged pile-up component that
is not removed by charged hadron subtraction cuts.
The JES is measured in speciﬁc event selections as
described in Sect. 5, but these calibrations are applied to
many ﬁnal states. An uncertainty is required to cover poten-
tial inadequacy of the model used in the simulation of the
difference between the bias in ρ in different event topolo-
gies, speciﬁcally the difference between the bias inρbetween
dijet and Z(→ μμ)+jets events. TheZ(→ μμ)+jets events
are distinctive from dijet events in several ways, including the
quark-gluon composition, colour ﬂow, and momentum trans-
fer of the process, making it a good topology to use to estimate
the magnitude of a potential bias. This bias at a given μ is
estimated by comparing the difference between the value of
⟨ρ⟩ for the data sample in two different event topologies to
measure potential inadequacy of the model used in the MC
simulation of the data:
/Delta1ρ(μ) =
(
ρ(μ)dijet
MC − ρ(μ)Z+jet
MC
)
−
(
ρ(μ)dijet
data − ρ(μ)Z+jet
data
)
,
and the bias that is propagated to the jet energy scale uncer-
tainties is the bias determined at the average value of μ for
the data sample:
bias[GeV]= /Delta1ρ(⟨μ⟩).
The Z(→ μμ)+jets selection uses the lowest unprescaled
single muon trigger, and requires two muons with pμ1
T >
30 GeV, pμ2
T > 25 GeV, 80 < mμμ < 100 GeV, and
pμμ
T > 25 GeV, and the dijet selection uses the lowest
unprescaled single jet trigger, and requires a leading jet with
pT > 500 GeV, |η| < 2.4, and greater than 5% of the
momentum carried by charged particle ﬂow objects.
Figure 1 shows the dependence of ⟨ρ⟩ in the two pro-
cesses as a function ofμ for data and simulation, comparing
both the ρ deﬁnitions described above. The lower panels
compare the values of ⟨ρ⟩ in the two processes. Two dif-
ferent Sherpa dijet samples are shown: a 2.1.1 sample [45]
that was used in the previous calibration [ 4], and the 2.2.5
sample used now, while for Z(→ μμ)+jets, only Sherpa
2.2.1 is used. TheSherpa 2.2.X samples include an improve-
ment to the multi-parton interaction (MPI) model, which
directly affects the bias inρ. Signiﬁcantly larger differences
are seen between the dijet Sherpa 2.1.1 sample and the
Z(→ μμ)+jets Sherpa 2.2.1 sample than between the dijet
Sherpa 2.2.5 sample and the Z(→ μμ)+jets Sherpa 2.2.1
sample, Previously, the bias was determined using the dijet
Sherpa 2.1.1 sample and the Z(→ μμ)+jets Sherpa 2.2.1
sample, which have different MPI models. Using the updated
dijet Sherpa sample that uses a consistent MPI model with
Z(→ μμ)+jets results in a factor of four reduction in the
bias, showing the importance of MPI modelling in MC simu-
lations. The new ρ deﬁnition, ρ
PUSB, results in signiﬁcantly
smaller differences between the different topologies, and a
better description of the data by the simulation. Similarly,
the improvements to the ρ deﬁnition result in almost a fac-
tor of three improvement to the uncertainty, as seen by the
difference between data and Sherpa for the two different
ρ deﬁnitions. Together, these improvements reduce the JES
uncertainty from theρ modelling by a factor of nearly seven.
4.3 Residual pile-up correction
To further reduce the impact of pile-up, a residual pile-up
correction is applied, based on N
PV, μ, the reconstructed
jet pT ( preco
T ), and the reconstructed jet η (ηreco). Due to
the fast response of the silicon tracking detectors used to
reconstruct the tracks used to ﬁnd the primary vertices,NPV is
sensitive to the in-time pile-up, while μ is sensitive to the
out-of-time pile-up, since it accounts for the average amount
of pile-up around a given bunch crossing. Typically, in-time
pile-up increases the energy of the jet, and out-of-time pile-
up decreases it. The negative dependence of the jet energy
scale on μ for out-of-time pile-up is a result of the liquid-
argon calorimeter’s pulse shape, which is negative during the
period soon after registering a signal [ 46]. Two options for
the residual pile-up correction are compared.
4.3.1 The 1D residual pile-up correction
The ﬁrst strategy, referred to as the ‘1D residual pile-up cali-
bration’, follows the method outlined in Ref. [4], where addi-
tional corrections are applied based on the μ and N
PV of the
event, with
p1D residual
T = parea
T − (∂pT/∂NPV)
×(NPV − 1) − (∂pT/∂μ)× μ,
where ∂pT/∂NPV and ∂pT/∂μare determined as follows. To
determine ∂pT/∂NPV, ﬁrst, the dependence of/Delta1parea-truth
T =
parea
T − ptruth
T on NPV is ﬁt with a line in bins of μ, ptruth
T ,
and η. The slope of this function is taken as the dependence
∂pT/∂NPV per μ bin. The average of these slopes across μ
is taken to be the pT dependence on NPV for a given ptruth
T
and η bin. For each η bin, the average pT dependence is
ﬁt as a function of ptruth
T with a logarithmic function for
20 GeV < ptruth
T < 200 GeV. The value of the logarithmic
ﬁt at 25 GeV is taken as the nominal correction, since pile-up
effects are most relevant for low-p
T jets. Finally, a piecewise
123

===== PAGE 6 =====
761 Page 6 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 1 The distribution of ρ as a function of μfor the (top) Z(→
μμ)+jets and (middle) dijet selections for data,Pythia 8, Sherpa 2.2.5,
and Sherpa 2.1.1. The lower panel shows the difference between the
two topologies which is used to determine the uncertainty from the
extrapolation across topologies, indicated by the vertical arrows. The
left plot shows ρ built from the jet constituents: neutral PFOs and
charged PFOs with |z
0 sin θ| < 2 mm, and the right plot shows ρ
built using neutral PFOs and charged PFOs satisfying the new sideband
selection
linear function is ﬁt over the per|η| bin values of∂pT/∂NPV,
reducing statistical ﬂuctuations and providing a continuous
correction over the full η range. To determine ∂pT/∂μ,t h e
same process is repeated with NPV and μ switched, to get
the dependence of /Delta1parea-truth
T on μ.
4.3.2 The 3D residual pile-up correction
The 1D residual pile-up correction does not account for corre-
lations betweenμ and NPV, and does not account for changes
in the pile-up contribution as a function of jet pT. The 3D
residual pile-up correction is designed to include these cor-
relations. In this calibration, derived in bins of η
reco,t h ej e t
pT scale is shifted to match the truth jet scale as a function
of (NPV, μ, parea
T ), simultaneously correcting for pile-up and
detector effects. The ptruth
T is used as a reference to compute
a correction given by /Delta1parea-truth
T . For extreme values of μ
and NPV, where there are insufﬁcient events to determine an
accurate correction, the correction is determined using the
closest non-empty (μ, NPV) bin (with the same pT), and the
result is smoothed. This average difference,/Delta1parea-truth
T ,i sﬁ t
as a function of parea
T using a linear plus logarithmic func-
tion, in bins of NPV, μ, and preco
T , determined using jets with
10 GeV < ptruth
T < 200 GeV. The corrected value is given
by
p3D residual
T = parea
T − /Delta1parea-truth
T (NPV,μ, parea
T ).
By construction, this residual pile-up calibration corrects
the jet energy scale to the truth jet scale, combining correc-
tions due to pile-up with corrections due to detector effects.
This is contrasted with the 1D residual pile-up correction,
which is designed to exclusively remove the impact of pile-up
on the jetp
T scale. Several options to only correct for the pile-
up pT were studied, but these were found to either increase
the pile-up dependence or result in problematic effects such
as a large fraction of jets with negative p
T.
123

===== PAGE 7 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 7 of 41 761
4.3.3 Comparison of the different residual pile-up
corrections
A comparison of the different options for the residual pile-
up corrections is shown in Fig. 2. As seen in this ﬁgure, the
residual pile-up calibration is especially useful for improv-
ing the pile-up dependence for jets with|η
reco| > 2.5. Over-
all, for the 1D residual pile-up correction, the absolute pile-
up dependence increases for higher pT jets, but the relative
impact on the pT response is smaller. While the 1D residual
pile-up correction performs best for the pT range which it is
optimised for (20–30 GeV), it has a sizeable pile-up depen-
dence at other jet p
T. In addition, since the 1D residual pile-
up correction is optimised for this same bin, its performance
appears enhanced by construction, while a more differential
binning would show a worse performance. The 3D residual
pile-up correction signiﬁcantly reduces the pile-up depen-
dence of the calibration, particularly at high p
T. Based on
these results, the 3D residual pile-up calibration is used for
the remainder of the reported studies.
4.4 The jet energy scale and ηcalibration
The absolute jet energy scale (MCJES) andηcorrections pro-
vide calibration functions for the energy and ηas a function
of η
det and Ereco such that jets agree on average with the truth
jet energy and η. Since the calorimeters measure the energy
of particles, and not the transverse momenta, this correction
is determined as a function of the jet energy. The jet energy
response R, deﬁned as the mean of a ﬁt with a Gaussian func-
tion to the core of the E
reco/Etrue distribution, is measured
in Etrue and ηdet bins, where ηdet is the jet η pointing from
the geometric centre of the detector, which is used to remove
any ambiguity about which region of the detector is measur-
ing the jet. The difference in R from the expected value of
one is referred to as the non-closure, and regions where the
R has the expected value within the uncertainties are said to
demonstrate closure.
The jet energy response after the application of the resid-
ual calibration is shown as a function of E
true and ηdet in
Fig. 3. This differs from previous JES calibrations by the
ATLAS experiment, in that the jet energy response is already
close to unity, meaning that the correction is relatively small.
This is a feature of the 3D residual pile-up correction, which
shifts the energy scale of the jets close to the truth scale,
although there is some signiﬁcant difference from one at high
η, where the residual calibration insufﬁciently captures the
behaviour of the energy response. Since the/Delta1p
T term in the
3D residual pile-up correction is determined using jets with
ptruth
T < 200 GeV, the jet energy response shifts away from
one at energies corresponding to pT > 200 GeV.
Directly predicting the jet energy response from Ereco
depends on the distribution of Etrue used to derive the cali-
bration. Overall, the distribution of the response is approxi-
mately Gaussian for a given Etrue, but not for a given Ereco
[47]. Therefore, the calibration uses a numerical inversion
technique [5], where, for each ηbin, the jet energy response
is ﬁt as a function of Etrue, and the jet calibration factor as
a function of Ereco is determined using the inverse of this
function. The two methods of determining the ﬁt function,
polynomial ﬁts of order N, and penalised splines are com-
pared below.
4.4.1 Polynomial ﬁts
Following the procedure outlined in Ref. [4], polynomial ﬁts
are deﬁned as a function of log (E), where Nmax = 8i st h e
maximal order of the ﬁtted polynomials. Out of the given
Nmax ﬁt functions, the best ﬁt function is identiﬁed using
Pearson’s χ2 test [48]. The calibration factors are usually
frozen at an η-dependent energy between 3 and 4 TeV to
reduce statistical ﬂuctuations, while at for pT < 8G e V ,a
linear extrapolation of the calibration factor is performed.
4.4.2 Penalised splines
In addition to the polynomial ﬁt functions, a new method
using penalised splines is studied. A spline S(x) of degree
N is a piecewise polynomial function of degree N, where
pieces of the spline meet at points called knots, and the ﬁrst
N − 1 derivatives are continuous across the knots. Splines
may be deﬁned from b-spline basis functions Bi(x, t) [49]
via
S(x) =
n−1∑
i
ai Bi(x, t),
where n is the number of data ﬁt points,ai are control points
weighting the individual basis functions Bi , and t are the
knots. Since S(x) = 0f o rx outside of the range deﬁned by
the knots, an extrapolation to lower (higher) energy values
is added using a linear extrapolation based on the ﬁrst (last)
ﬁve points for the low (high) end of the spline.
A spline will overﬁt the data, since the basis function is
required to exactly pass through the knots, where in this case,
the knots correspond to the energies where the response is
determined. For a set of points x
i and their corresponding
values yi , this can be mitigated by using penalised b-splines
(p-splines), which include an additional smoothness penali-
sation term P, minimizing
L = χ2 + αP =
n∑
i=0
(yi − S(xi))2
  
least squares
+α
∫ b
a
(
S′′(x)
)2 dx
  
penalisation
with a and b corresponding to the range over which the penal-
isation term is included, with a < xi < b, and the penalisa-
123

===== PAGE 8 =====
761 Page 8 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 2 Dependence of pT on (left) μand (right) NPV after the different residual pile-up corrections. The circles indicate the 1D residual pile-up
correction, and the squares indicate the 3D residual pile-up correction. This is shown for jets with (top) 20 GeV < pT < 30 GeV, (bottom)
30 GeV < pT < 60 GeV
tion parameter α ≥ 0 is chosen and ﬁxed. For these studies,
the x values correspond to Etrue, and the y values corre-
spond to the jet energy response. As α increases from zero
to ∞ , the result moves from a spline to a linear regression,
and this parameter enables a compromise between the curva-
ture penalisation and a close ﬁt to the data. The penalisation
parameter α is deﬁned dynamically for each ηbin as
α = λ
n ·
n∑
i=0
wi,
where i runs over then data ﬁt points,λis a regulative param-
eter, and wi are the point weights deﬁned as w = σ−1/2
y ,
where σy is the response ﬁt uncertainty from the iterative ﬁt
to a Gaussian function.
For these studies, the splines are implemented using the
Splinter framework [50], and a spline of degree three is used,
with λ empirically set to 0 .1. To check for overﬁtting, the
calibration and the closure test are performed on statistically
independent events.
4.4.3 Comparison of calibrations
A comparison of the MCJES closure for the ﬁtting tech-
niques at different energy values is presented in Fig.4.B o t h
the strategies can provide closure of 1% for high energies,
while at low energies, the p-spline approach provides better
closure than the polynomial ﬁt. Overall, the p-spline correc-
tion provides closure within 1% across the p
T and η range
considered, except for a small number of bins where the cal-
ibration becomes difﬁcult due to quickly changing response,
and non-Gaussian terms in the energy response. The rest of
the studies use the correction determined from the p-spline
ﬁt, since it provides the best overall closure.
123

===== PAGE 9 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 9 of 41 761
Fig. 3 The jet energy response before the MCJES calibrationa at ﬁxed
energies as a function ofηdet,a n db at ﬁxedηdet as a function of truth jet
energy. a The square shows the response for Etrue = 30 GeV, the plus-
sign shows the response for Etrue = 50 GeV, the down-triangle shows
the response for Etrue = 110 GeV, the up-triangle shows the response
for Etrue = 500 GeV, and the circle shows the response for Etrue =
1200 GeV. b The square shows the response for 0.0 <η det < 0.1, the
plus-sign shows the response for 1 .0 <η det < 1.1, the down-triangle
shows the response for 1 .4 <η det < 1.5, the up-triangle shows the
response for 2.8 <η det < 2.9, and the circle shows the response for
4.0 <η det < 4.1
Fig. 4 Jet response at ﬁxed energies as a function of η a after the
polynomial MCJES calibration step, and b after the p-spline MCJES
calibration. The square sign shows the response forEtrue = 30 GeV, the
plus sign shows the response for Etrue = 50 GeV, the down-pointing
triangle shows the response for Etrue = 110 GeV, the up-pointing tri-
angle shows the response for Etrue = 500 GeV, and the circle shows
the response for Etrue = 1200 GeV
4.4.4 Absolute MC jet η calibration
In addition to the jet energy, the jet pseudorapidity η is
calibrated with a similar approach as the JES calibration
to correct for biases in the η reconstruction, following the
strategy in Ref. [ 4]. This bias is most pronounced in the
transition region between different parts of the calorimeter,
where the discrepant response of the different detectors arti-
ﬁcially shifts the reconstructed energy on one side of the jet,
changing the reconstructedη. Theseηcorrections are partic-
ularly needed in the barrel-endcap (|η|∼ 1.4) and forward-
endcap (|η|∼ 3.1) transitions. The bias in η is deﬁned as
ηbias =⟨ ηreco − ηtrue⟩, as determined by an iterative ﬁt to a
Gaussian function, and the correction is performed on a jet-
by-jet basis via η
calib = ηreco − Rη. This correction is only
applied to the pT and η of the jet, and is parameterised as a
123

===== PAGE 10 =====
761 Page 10 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
function of Etrue and ηdet. For this correction, only polyno-
mial ﬁts are studied, using up to an order three polynomial.
There are small correlations between the corrections inηand
E, so this correction is derived simultaneously with the JES.
4.5 The global property calibration
The absolute MCJES calibration corrects the jet energy
response based on the E and η
det of the jet. However, there
are many other factors that contribute to the jet response,
including the distribution of energy in the jet, the distribu-
tion of energy deposits across different calorimeter layers,
and the types of hadrons produced in the jet. Many of these
characteristics depend on whether the jet is quark- or gluon-
initiated. This can be seen in Fig.5, which shows an example
of the jet response distribution for jets with different initiat-
ing partons, and the jet p
T response as a function of ptrue
T ,
where the parton label is deﬁned by the highest energy parton
ghost-associated with the truth jet. Not only are there differ-
ences between different jet ﬂavours (i.e. the ﬂavour of the
initiating parton), but the behaviours change with the p
T of
the jet. Quark-initiated jets tend to have fewer hadrons, each
with a higher fraction of the jetp
T, which typically results in
contributions further into the calorimeter. In contrast, gluon-
initiated jets typically have more, lower-pT hadrons, leading
to a lower calorimeter response and a wider transverse pro-
ﬁle. These behaviours are further complicated by the use of
particle ﬂow reconstruction, which adds further dependence
based on the charged particles in the jet.
The jet p
T response is also impacted by the MC model, as
seen by the differences between the jetpT response shown in
Fig. 6. Overall, most MC predictions have similar behaviour
for quark-initiated jets, while the differences between gluon-
initiated jets can be sizeable. This is due to differences
between predictions between MC generators for the amount
of soft radiation and its topological distribution in the jet.
There is some separation in the behaviour of models with
the Lund string model for hadronisation compared with the
other models, where the Lund string model tends to predict
a higher gluon p
T response, with larger differences for jets
with pT < 100 GeV. This can primarily be attributed to the
fraction of jet energy carried by baryons and kaons [51].
The global jet property calibration applies further correc-
tions to jets based on their individual characteristics. While
these corrections only have a small effect on the overall clo-
sure of the calibration, the closure is signiﬁcantly improved
for different classes of jets, improving the JER. In addition,
this calibration reduces differences between MC predictions
for the JES, resulting in smaller modelling uncertainties.
Two methods for deriving the global calibration are outlined
below: the global sequential calibration (GSC), which was
described in previous work [4], and a new method, the global
neural network calibration (GNNC). Both the corrections
are derived in |η
det| bins corresponding to different detector
regions, creating a balance between the statistical uncertainty
and the generality of the results.
4.5.1 The global sequential calibration
The GSC is a series of multiplicative corrections to account
for the differences between the calorimeter response to dif-
ferent types of jets, which improves the jet resolution without
changing the jet energy response. The GSC is based on global
jet observables such as the longitudinal proﬁle of the energy
deposits in the calorimeters, tracking information matched
to the jet, and information related to the activity in the muon
chambers behind a jet. Six observables that improve the JER
and reduce modelling uncertainties are used as inputs to the
GSC. Each GSC correction to the jet four-momentum is
derived and applied independently and sequentially, using
the following procedure. First, for a given GSC observable,
the jet p
T response distribution is ﬁt for each bin of|η|, ptrue
T ,
and the GSC observable, using the same procedure as in the
MCJES calibration. Next, these ﬁtted values are divided by
the inclusive value of the response in a given|η| and p
true
T bin
to avoid changing the pT scale of the jet calibration. Then,
for each bin of the GSC observable, the numerical inversion
of the jet p
T response is performed after a linear smoothing
in a given bin of ( ptrue
T , |ηdet|). The resulting responses for
ag i v e n|ηdet| bin are then smoothed simultaneously in pT
and the GSC observable using a Gaussian kernel. Because
the GSC is applied sequentially, it is possible to validate each
GSC correction in a systematic way, testing the impact of any
mismodelling of the input variables using data. Such studies
were performed to validate the sequential correction proce-
dure.
The six stages of the GSC, in the order of application, are
• f
charged: the fraction of the jet pT carried by charged
particles, as measured using ghost-associated tracks with
pT > 500 MeV, |ηdet| < 2.5,
• fTile0: the fraction of jet energy ( Efrac) measured in the
ﬁrst layer of the hadronic tile calorimeter, |ηdet| < 1.8,
• fLAr3:t h e Efrac measured in the third layer of the elec-
tromagnetic LAr calorimeter, |ηdet| < 3.5,
• Ntrack: the number of tracks with pT > 1 GeV ghost-
associated with the jet, |ηdet| < 2.5,
• wtrack: also known as track width, the average pT-
weighted transverse distance in the η-φ plane, between
the jet axis and all tracks ofpT > 1 GeV ghost-associated
with the jet, |ηdet| < 2.5,
• Nsegments: the number of muon track segments ghost-
associated with the jet, |ηdet| < 2.8.
The Nsegments correction, also known as the punch-through
correction, reduces the tails of the response distribution
123

===== PAGE 11 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 11 of 41 761
Fig. 5 a The jet pT response distribution for different jet ﬂavours for
jets with 20 GeV < ptrue
T < 25 GeV, and b the jet pT response for sev-
eral different ﬂavours of jets as a function ofptrue
T . The solid line shows
the response for gluon jets, the long dashed line shows the response for
light quark jets, the short dashed line shows strange jets, the alternating
medium and short dashed line shows charm jets, and the alternating
long and short dashed line shows bottom jets
Fig. 6 The jet pT response as a function of ptrue
T for several differ-
ent MC predictions for a quark jets, and b gluon jets. The solid line
shows Pythia 8, the long dashed line shows Herwig with an angu-
lar ordered parton shower, the short dashed line shows Herwig with
a dipole shower, the alternating medium and short dashed line shows
Sherpa with the AHADIC hadronisation model, the alternating long and
short dashed line shows Sherpa with the string hadronisation model, and
the long dash with three short dashes shows Powheg+Pythia
caused by high- pT jets that are not fully contained in the
calorimeter. Unlike the other corrections, the Nsegments cor-
rection is applied as a function of the jet energy instead of
the jet p
T, since this effect is more strongly correlated with
energy escaping the calorimeters.
The jet pT response for PFlow jets in MC simulation after
each of the GSC corrections is shown in Fig. 7 for one |η|
bin. While the jet energy scale is within 1% at low energies,
a small amount of non-closure is introduced when determin-
ing the response usingpT instead of energy. The fractional jet
resolution, denoted byσ, is used to determine the magnitude
of the ﬂuctuations in the jet energy reconstruction, where σ
is the width of the ﬁt to a Gaussian function for the jet pT
response distribution divided by the mean of the ﬁt. This is
shown for PFlow jets with 0.2 < |ηdet| < 0.7 in MC simula-
tion in Fig.7. As more corrections are applied, the fractional
jet resolution improves and the jet response dependence on
the jet ﬂavour is reduced as the calibration is improved for
123

===== PAGE 12 =====
761 Page 12 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
jets with varying features. The impact of fcharged and fTile0
are most apparent in Fig.7, but the relative impact of the dif-
ferent corrections varies as a function of |ηdet|. In addition,
these corrections reduces effects that are less evident in the
inclusive case. For instance, the punch-through correction
scales with energy, and so it primarily impacts analyses that
are sensitive to high-energy jets, but its impact is not obvious
in the inclusive distribution.
4.5.2 The global neural network calibration
The GSC is limited to using relatively uncorrelated vari-
ables for the correction, since otherwise, each sequential step
would potentially interfere with previous corrections due to
correlations between observables. This constraint is funda-
mental to the method, limiting the set of corrections that may
be applied. However when adding additional observables,
and to account for their correlations, a simultaneous calibra-
tion is more appropriate [52]. As an alternative to the sequen-
tial calibration, a deep neural network (DNN) is trained to
determine a simultaneous correction based on a wide variety
of jet properties, enabling the use of correlated variables for
determining the global jet property correction. Since analy-
ses make selections based on the jetp
T, the DNN is designed
to correct the jet pT response, in contrast to the GSC, which
leaves the energy response unchanged.
To improve the performance based on the detector geom-
etry, a DNN is trained for each|ηdet| region used to derive the
GSC to provide a correction to the jetpT based on various jet-
and event-level features. The DNNs are trained with Keras
[53], using the Adam [54] optimisation algorithm. The net-
work has three hidden layers with swish activation functions
[55] and a single-node output layer with linear activation.
The number of nodes is optimised for each |η
det| bin, and
ranges between 100 and 300. The network uses the leaky
Gaussian kernel (LGK) loss function [56]
Loss(x
target, xpred) =− 1√
2π
exp
(
− (xtarget − xpred)2
2α2
)
+β|xtarget − xpred|,
where xtarget is the jet pT response, xpred is the corresponding
NN prediction, andα and β are tunable parameters. Asα →
0, the LGK loss learns the mode, and the second term ensures
that the gradient of the error function relative to the current
weight does not vanish for large x
target − xpred. Learning
the mode is less biased by cases where the response is not a
perfect Gaussian distribution, resulting in better closure than
a loss function that learns the mean of the distribution.
The architecture of the network was chosen as the result
of a hyperparameter optimisation based on the closure of the
result, where hyperparameters are parameters involving the
network structure. The training is done with a batch size of
10
4 jets, and a learning rate of 10 −4. For the LGK loss, the
parameters are chosen to beα = 10−1, and β = 10−6 based
on the hyperparameter scan. The training is done to minimise
the LGK loss function, and training continues until there are
no improvements to the loss for ﬁve epochs. Increasing the
patience did not have a noticeable effect on the quality of
the results. Unweighted events are used because this avoids
issues in the training due to large differences between the
event weights. Since the target is the p
T response, not the jet
pT itself, the uniform weights do not have a large impact on
the ﬁnal result. Only the two leading jets in the event are used
in the training, since the events were simulated using a dijet
process, and so this avoids potential biases from using jets
that originate purely from the parton shower. For each|η
det|
bin, several networks were trained, and the one with the best
closure was chosen for the ﬁnal result.
Several sets of variables were considered as inputs to the
NN, and the ﬁnal list of variables used in the training is
given in Table1. This list includes all of the variables used in
the GSC calibration, with the addition of more information
about the jet kinematics, more granular information about the
energy deposits in different calorimeter layers, and measures
of pile-up. While the residual pile-up correction removes
most of the pile-up dependence, some dependence is reintro-
duced by the absolute MCJES calibration, and so N
PV and
μare included in the training. Some calorimeter layers are not
present for certain |ηdet| regions, in which case their Efrac is
set to zero. Explicitly removing these observables from the
list of input variables used in the NN training had a negligible
impact on the results, and so the set of training variables is
kept the same for all |η
det| regions.
The jet pT closure from this calibration is typically bet-
ter than 1%, but it also has some ﬂuctuations, which can
sometimes slightly exceed this. The magnitude of these ﬂuc-
tuations varies with each DNN training but were persistent
across different DNN hyperparameters, loss functions, and
training targets. To mitigate this, an additionalp
T calibration
is derived after the GNNC, using the p-spline method out-
lined in Sect.4.4, but using the truth jetp
T as the target instead
of the energy. This is derived in|ηdet| bins with width of 0.1,
which provides better performance than using the same|ηdet|
bins as the GNNC correction. This has a negligible effect on
the jet pT resolution, and only serves to improve the closure
and smoothness of the calibration.
4.5.3 Comparison of the methods
Figure 8 shows a comparison of the jet pT response after the
MCJES, GSC and GNNC for one representative |ηdet| bins.
As designed, the GSC does not change the energy response
of the jets. Since the JES calibration moves the reconstructed
energy scale to match that of the truth scale, this can result in
123

===== PAGE 13 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 13 of 41 761
Fig. 7 a The jet pT response after each stage of the GSC calibration, and b the jet pT resolution after the MCJES, after the fcharged correction,
after the fTile0 correction, after the fLAr3 correction, after the Ntrack correction, after the wtrack correction, and after the Nsegments correction
Table 1 List of variables used as input to the GNNC. Variables with a
* correspond to those that are also used by the GSC
Calorimeter fLAr0−3∗ The Efrac measured in the 0th-3rd
layer of the EM LAr calorimeter
fTile0∗−2 The Efrac measured in the 0th-2nd
layer of the hadronic tile
calorimeter
f
HEC,0−3 The Efrac measured in the 0th-3rd
layer of the hadronic end cap
calorimeter
f
FCAL,0−2 The Efrac measured in the 0th-2nd
layer of the forward calorimeter
N90% The minimum number of clusters
containing 90% of the jet energy
Jet kinematics pJES
T *T h e j e t pT after the MCJES
calibration
ηdet The detector η
Tracking wtrack* The average pT-weighted
transverse distance in the η-φ
plane between the jet axis and all
tracks of p
T > 1G e V
ghost-associated with the jet
Ntrack* The number of tracks with
pT > 1 GeV ghost-associated
with the jet
fcharged* The fraction of the jet pT measured
from ghost-associated tracks
Muon segments Nsegments* The number of muon track
segments ghost-associated with
the jet
Pile-up μ The average number of interactions
per bunch crossing
N
PV The number of reconstructed
primary vertices
some nonclosure in the jet pT, which is particularly evident
at low pT. The GNNC is designed to change the pT scale of
the jets to match the truth jets, and so the closure in pT is
better than that of the GSC closure. It is worth noting that
while the GSC can instead be applied in a way that corrects
the jet pT scale, this does not impact the resolution. Other
|ηdet| bins show similar qualitative features, though the exact
nonclosure seen in thepT response after the MCJES and GSC
varies slightly.
Figure 9 show a comparison of the jet pT resolution after
the MCJES, GSC and GNNC for several representative|ηdet|
bins. In a few cases, the jet pT resolution becomes worse in
the lowest pT bins, but this is also where the pT nonclosure
is most signiﬁcant, making it difﬁcult to have an accurate
estimate of the resolution, particularly since the pT scale of
the GNNC is different than that of the MCJES and GSC.
Since the p
T scale of the MCJES and GSC is above one
and has a negative slope, the measured resolution is slightly
underestimated [47] in these bins, while the GNNC resolu-
tion is correctly estimated, since the response closes. In the
0.2 < |η| < 0.7 bin, the GNNC has an average improvement
in the jet pT resolution of over 15%, and maximum improve-
ments of over 25%, when compared with the GSC. Other
|η
det| bins show similar average improvements of around 15–
25%, with maximum improvements often over 30%, and the
improvement generally becomes more pronounced at higher
|η
det|, where the resolution improvements are signiﬁcant,
mostly due to the improvements from the additional detec-
tor information. Studies comparing the GNNC performance
with only the GSC observables as inputs ﬁnd a similar per-
formance to the GSC, indicating that the improvement in
the resolution of GNNC compared with GSC is due to the
inclusion of additional observables. This is made possible
by a simultaneous correction that accounts for correlations
123

===== PAGE 14 =====
761 Page 14 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 8 The jet pT closure for 0.2 < |ηdet| < 0.7. The solid line shows
the MCJES, the long dashed line shows the GSC, and the short dashed
line shows the GNNC
between observables. The GNNC provides a larger improve-
ment to the jet energy resolution than the GSC, and so it is
used for the remainder of the paper.
4.5.4 Flavour uncertainties
The two ﬂavour-dependence uncertainties in the JES are
derived from simulation and account for relative ﬂavour frac-
tions and differing responses to quark- and gluon-initiated
jets. The ﬂavour response uncertainty accounts for the fact
that, unlike the quark-initiated jet response R
q , the gluon-
initiated jet response Rg is found to differ signiﬁcantly
between generators. This uncertainty is deﬁned as
σresponse = fg(Rg,Pythia8 − Rg,Herwig),
where fg is the fraction of gluon-initiated jets, andRg,Pythia8
and Rg,Herwig are the gluon-initiated jet response Rg in
Pythia 8 and Herwig respectively. The ﬂavour composi-
tion uncertainty accounts for the fact that the jet response
is different for quark- and gluon-initiated jets. This is deter-
mined based on the fraction of gluon-initiated jets fg, where
Rq and Rg are the quark and gluon jet responses measured
in Pythia 8, and σ f
g is the uncertainty in fg in the sample,
with the uncertainty deﬁned as
σcomposition = σ f
g
Rq − Rg
fg Rg + (1 − fg)Rq
.
Figure 10 shows a comparison of the ﬂavour composition
and ﬂavour response uncertainties for the MCJES, GNNC
and GSC. After the MCJES calibration, R
q − Rg becomes
negative for jets above 100 GeV, which appears as a dip in the
ﬂavour composition uncertainty. Both the GSC and GNNC
can reduce these uncertainties, with the GNNC providing a
greater reduction. For each |η
det| bin, when compared with
the GSC, the GNNC results in an average improvement of
around 15–25% in the 40 ≤ p
T < 300 GeV range for the
ﬂavour response uncertainty, and up to 25% improvements
for the ﬂavour composition uncertainty.
5 In situ analysis
The ﬁnal calibration step accounts for differences in the jet
response between simulation and data. Such differences arise
due to the imperfect simulation of detector response and
detector material, and the modelling of physics processes
involved: hard scatter, underlying events, pile-up, jet forma-
tion and particle interactions with detector material. For the
remainder of these studies, a single jet calibration is stud-
ied, using the sideband ρ deﬁnition in Sect. 4.2 and the 3D
residual calibration in Sect.4.3, the absolute MC calibration
implemented with p-splines in Sect. 4.4, and the GNNC for
the global calibration in Sect. 4.5. To fully understand the
impact of these changes relative to the calibration procedure
in Ref. [4], on the calibration and corresponding uncertain-
ties, the in situ calibration is studied. The in situ calibration
provides important validation of the new MC calibration of
jets by comparing the data-to-MC difference between thep
T
balance of a jet against a well-calibrated object or system.
In addition, novel studies are done to disentangle the physics
effects and detector effects in theη-intercalibration to reduce
the systematic uncertainties. Furthermore, the b−jet JES is
evaluated in situ using PFlow jets, which is performed using
γ+ jet events for the ﬁrst time.
The in situ calibration response Rin situ is deﬁned as the
average ratio of the jet pT to the transverse momentum of
the reference object pref
T , derived as a function of pref
T .T h e
Rin situ response is susceptible to effects such as the radi-
ation of additional partons or the loss of energy outside the
reconstructed jet cone. Dedicated event selections are applied
to mitigate these effects. A double ratio, insensitive to these
secondary effects provided they are well-modelled in simu-
lations, is deﬁned
C = R
data
in situ
RMC
in situ
.
The calibration factor to the jet four-momentum can be
obtained by a numerical inversion of this double ratio
as a function of jet p
T, and as a function of ηdet in η-
intercalibration.
Two stages of in situ analyses are done sequentially to
assess the performance of MC calibrations. First, a rela-
tive in situ calibration referred to as the η-intercalibration
is done, which corrects the energy scale of forward jets
(0.8 < |η
det| < 4.5) to match that of the central jets
(|ηdet| < 0.8) using the pT balance in a dijet system. Sec-
ond, an absolute calibration is done by measuring the pT
balance of a central jet against a well-calibratedZ boson or a
photon. The missing- ET projection fraction (MPF) method
123

===== PAGE 15 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 15 of 41 761
Fig. 9 The jet pT resolution for a 0.2 < |ηdet| < 0.7, b 0.7 < |ηdet| < 1.3, c 1.8 < |ηdet| < 2.5, and (d) 3.2 < |ηdet| < 3.5. The solid line shows
the MCJES, the long dashed line shows the GSC, and the short dashed line shows the GNNC
[57]i su s e di nZ/γ+jet events to calculate the pT balance
between the full hadronic recoil and a Z boson or a pho-
ton. The method is less susceptible to effects of pile-up and
the threshold of the jet reconstruction than the direct balance
method, allowing a reliable measurement of the low- p
T jet
response below 100 GeV. The direct balance (DB) method
measures the balance between a ( b−)jet recoiled against a
photon in γ+jet events. By using the DB instead of MPF, the
response of the b-jet itself is studied without including the
effects of the hadronic recoil.
For each in situ analysis, main sources of systematic uncer-
tainties arise from the MC model of physics processes, the
measurement of the reference object and the p
T balance due
to the selected event topology. Uncertainties related to MC
model of physics effects are addressed by taking the differ-
ence between the predictions between two distinct MC event
generators. The difference between jet response in simula-
tions depends on hadronisation models that cause different jet
contents [51]. Uncertainties in the reference object are esti-
mated by propagating its own ±1σ calibration uncertainties
through the analysis. Uncertainties due to the selected event
topology are evaluated by varying the event selection crite-
ria and comparing the impact on the response ratios between
data and MC simulation. To reduce the statistical ﬂuctua-
tions when applying the systematic variations, a rebinning
procedure similar to that used in previous publications [ 4]
is employed to obtain statistically signiﬁcant results using
pseudo-experiments. This rebinning procedure is only per-
formed in regions where no sharp variations in p
T response
are observed to ensure no real physics effects are removed.
Events must satisfy the common selection requirements
in the in situ analysis. Each event is required to have at least
123

===== PAGE 16 =====
761 Page 16 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 10 a The ﬂavour response uncertainty, and b the ﬂavour composition uncertainty for central jets. The solid line shows the MCJES, the long
dashed line shows the GSC, and the short dashed line shows the GNNC
one reconstructed primary vertex with at least two matched
tracks of pT > 500 MeV. Jets arising from cosmic rays,
non-collision background and calorimeter noise are vetoed
by applying data-quality requirements [58]. In addition, jets
with 20 < pT < 60 GeV and |ηdet| < 2.4 are required to
satisfy the criteria of jet vertex tagging (JVT) [ 59,60]. The
JVT criteria rejects jets from pile-up interactions by matching
jets with the primary vertex; it has a selection efﬁciency of
97% for hard scatter jets at the nominal operating point.
5.1 η-intercalibration
The jet response in the forward region (0.8 < |η
det| < 4.5) is
typically less understood due to the more complicated detec-
tor structure. Theη-intercalibration provides a correction for
forward jets (0.8 < |η
det| < 4.5) to bring them to the same
energy scale as central jets ( |ηdet| < 0.8). This calibration
uses events with a dijet topology, requiring two back-to-back
jets in the transverse plane in different η
det regions. In order
to increase the statistical precision, there is no requirement
on whether or not one of the two jets is in the central reference
region: instead, all regions will be calibrated relative to one
another by solving a set of linear equations. This is referred
to as the matrix method [ 4]. The momentum asymmetry is
deﬁned to measure the jet p
T balance between the two jets in
two distinct detector regions (symbolically labelled left and
right for simplicity)
A = pleft
T − pright
T
pavg
T
,
where pavg
T is the average of the transverse momentum of the
left and right jets ( pavg
T = ( pleft
T + pright
T )/2). For a narrow
bin approximation in pavg
T , the relative responseR of the left
and right jets in terms of the calibration factor for each jet
and the mean of A can be deﬁned as
R = cright
cleft = 2 + ⟨A⟩
2 − ⟨A⟩ ≈
⟨
pleft
T
⟩
⣨
pright
T
⟩
where R is measured in terms of ηdet for left and right jets
and pavg
T . The intercalibration factor c is deﬁned as c = cright
cleft
and hence the relative response R satisﬁes R = 1/c.
Dijet events are selected using a combination of forward
and central single-jet triggers, where each trigger is consid-
ered in the range of p
avg
T that has an efﬁciency of at least
99%. Prescaled jet triggers are used to accommodate band-
width limits, and each selected event is weighted accordingly.
The trigger combination method [4,61]i su s e dt om a x i m i s e
the statistical precision. Each event must have at least two
leading jets with p
avg
T > 25 GeV and |ηdet| < 4.5. Events
containing a third jet with pjet 3
T / pavg
T > 0.25 are excluded.
The two leading jets must be back-to-back in the transverse
plane satisfying a requirement on their azimuthal angle dif-
ference /Delta1φ1,2 > 2.5.
The nominal calibration is estimated by taking the ratio
of the simulated response in Powheg+Pythia8 to the mea-
sured response in data. The binning inηdet and pavg
T is chosen
to ensure enough of a sample size in scarce reference regions
and to capture granular variations in detector response. A
two-dimensional Gaussian kernel is optimised to smooth sta-
tistical ﬂuctuations while also capturing notable detector fea-
tures.
The 2017 data sample is representative of the high pile-up
conditions and thus discussed here. The relative response,
parameterised by η
det in two pavg
T regions and by pavg
T in two
123

===== PAGE 17 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 17 of 41 761
ηdet regions between the 2017 data sample and MC simula-
tions from Powheg+Pythia8 and Powheg+Herwig 7 with
an angular ordered shower, is shown in Fig.11. The predicted
response in the two MC simulations is found to capture the
overall shape of theηdet dependence. However, the response
predicted from simulations is consistently lower than that
measured in data for the forward detector regions across all
p
avg
T bins.
Uncertainties can arise due to the inaccurate descrip-
tion of physics, detector response and the dijet topology
on the momentum balance. They are evaluated in terms of
pavg
T and ηdet. Uncertainties arising from the MC mismod-
elling are estimated by taking the difference between the
smoothed residual correction between Powheg+Pythia8
and Powheg+Herwig 7 with angular ordered shower. Other
uncertainties due to the mismodelling in physics and event
topology are estimated by modifying the requirement on the
third jet veto, the /Delta1φ
1,2 separation, and JVT.
Further studies are performed at particle and reconstruc-
tion level separately to disentangle physics and detector
effects. The particle level can be used to study physics effects
affecting the dijet balance due to additional parton radia-
tions or out-of-cone corrections. It is performed using the
same procedure as the reconstruction level except that no
JVT requirements are applied. The matrix method is used as
the nominal method while the central reference method [4]i s
used as a cross-check. These physics effects induce a smooth
and non trivial structure of the relative response 1 /c with a
slight asymmetry between positive and negative η
det in the
forward region as shown in Fig.12a. A similar structure with
sharper variations due to convolution with detector effects
is also present at the reconstruction level shown in Fig. 11a.
The systematic uncertainty /Delta1c on the intercalibration fac-
tor at particle level is /Delta1c =
⏐⏐
⏐
csyst
cnominal − 1
⏐⏐
⏐, where c
syst is the
intercalibration coefﬁcient obtained with a different selec-
tion of the events, either a different selection on pjet 3
T / pavg
T
or /Delta1φ1,2. By comparing Fig. 12a, b, the magnitude of these
physics effects at particle level is similar to the magnitude of
the systematic uncertainties designed to cover them, which
are evaluated by varying the selection criteria forpjet 3
T / pavg
T
and /Delta1φ1,2 at reconstruction level in data and MC simultane-
ously. Therefore, these uncertainties are not underestimated.
Variations in parton showering and hadronisation mod-
els can affect dijet balance that convolves both the physics
and detector effects. The MC modelling uncertainty derived
at particle level as a function of η
det only considers the
physics effects on the dijet balance and excludes impacts
on the detector response which were evaluated in the jet
ﬂavour response uncertainty using various MC simulations
discussed in Sect. 4.5. Such a procedure will signiﬁcantly
reduce the MC modelling uncertainty shown in Fig.12c and
avoid possible double counting of uncertainties.
Figure 13 shows the fractional uncertainties derived as a
function of η
det for two representative pT values. The sys-
tematic uncertainty for |ηdet| < 0.8 is set to zero as they are
determined from the absolute in situ JES measurements such
as Z/γ+jet analysis. The fractional uncertainties increase
with ηdet for |ηdet| > 0.8 and illustrate a signiﬁcant decrease
with increasing pT. Dominant uncertainties arise from the
choice of event generators and variations in the selection cri-
teria on pjet 3
T / pavg
T . The total systematic uncertainty is sig-
niﬁcantly reduced by using MC modelling uncertainty esti-
mated at particle level instead of reconstruction level. It is
worth noting that systematic variations in the selection cri-
terion such as pjet 3
T / pavg
T are performed simultaneously in
data and simulation at reconstruction level while Fig. 12b
shows only the relative impact at particle level. If there is
a difference between up and down variations, then the sys-
tematic uncertainty is taken to be the larger absolute value.
Systematic uncertainties are symmetrised around η
det = 0
between the positive and negativeηdet values using the most
conservative approach, as whether the asymmetry of the sys-
tematic uncertainty inηdet arises from statistical ﬂuctuations
or detector effects is unknown.
5.2 Z/γ+jet balance
The next step in the jet calibration brings the absolute jet
energy scale in data to the same scale in simulation by exploit-
ing the p
T balance between the hadronic recoil and a well-
calibrated object such as a Z boson or a photon. The jet used
in the in situ analysis is required to be from the central detec-
tor region (|η| < 0.8), in which the derived correction can be
applied to jets in the forward region via theηintercalibration.
The Z/γ+jet balance measurement is built upon the precise
determination of the energy of the photon ore/μ pair from a
Z boson decay. These measurements beneﬁt from the accu-
rate knowledge of the energy scale and resolution of the lep-
tons. The calibration of electrons and photons is accurately
known through measurements using Z → ee data and other
ﬁnal states [62] while the muon calibration is determined to
high precision through studies of J//Psi1→ μμ, Z → μμ
and ϒ → μμ [63].
Three independent measurements consisting of Z+jet for
the Z → ee and Z → μμ decay channels, and γ+jet
are used to do the absolute in situ calibration. The Z+jet
measurement provides enough of a sample size at low and
medium jet p
T covering 17 < pT < 800 GeV with lim-
ited precision above 800 GeV. The γ+jet analysis provides
a complimentary measurement at medium and high pT cov-
ering 30 < pT < 2000 GeV, with limited precision below
100 GeV due to prescaled low-pT triggers, jets misidentiﬁed
as photons, and MC event generator choices.
123

===== PAGE 18 =====
761 Page 18 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 11 Relative jet response, 1 /c, calibrated with PFlow+JES as a
function of ηdet in the ranges of a 25 GeV < pjet
T < 40 GeV and b
400 GeV < pjet
T < 525 GeV, and as a function of pT in ranges of c
1.2 <η det < 1.4a n dd 3.3 <η det < 3.4. The top panel presents the
measured relative response for data (dots), Powheg+Pythia8( t r i a n -
gles) andPowheg+Herwig 7(triangles). The bottom panel presents the
MC-to-data response ratios represented by triangles and the smoothed
in situ corrections are represented by overlayed curves, in which the
solid line shows the derived calibration and the dashed line shows
the extrapolated calibration to sparse detector regions using the two
dimensional Gaussian Kernels. Two perpendicular lines are drawn at
η
det =± 0.8 to indicate the central ( |ηdet| < 0.8) and the forward
(0.8 < |ηdet| < 4.5) detector region. Three horizontal dashed lines are
drawn at 0.97, 1, and 1.03 to provide reference points for the viewer
The MPF method measures the pT balance between the
reference objects and the full hadronic recoil in Z/γ+jet
events. This technique allows the calorimeter response to
the hadronic showers to be computed directly. It has low
susceptibility to pile-up and underlying event which is uni-
form across the detector and thus cancelled out in the MPF
method. According to conservation of transverse momentum,
the transverse momentum of all of the hadronic activity in a
Z/γ+jet event, p
recoil
T , should be equal and opposite to the
transverse momentum of the reference boson,pref
T , at particle
level, such that
⃗p ref
T,truth +⃗p recoil
T,truth = 0. (1)
At the detector level, the well-calibrated objects have
a response of one while the calorimeter response to the
hadronic recoil rMPF is lower than unity, resulting in possible
missing transverse momentum ⃗E miss
T in the event. Therefore,
equation 1 can be written as:
⃗p ref
T + rMPF ⃗p recoil
T =− ⃗E miss
T .
Projecting the vector terms along the direction of the
reference boson using a unit vector ˆnref in the transverse
plane, then rMPF is only dependent on the missing transverse
momentum and the transverse momentum of the reference
boson. The average ofr
MPF, RMPF, is measured as a function
123

===== PAGE 19 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 19 of 41 761
Fig. 12 Intercalibration coefﬁcients and uncertainties derived at both
the particle and reconstruction level, using MC simulated events recon-
structed with the conditions of 2017 data-taking period. a Intercalibra-
tion coefﬁcients obtained for different generators and different meth-
ods. Powheg+Pythia8 is used as the nominal MC generator. Three
horizontal dashed lines are drawn at 0.97, 1, and 1.03 to provide ref-
erence points for the viewer. b Systematic uncertainties obtained with
the matrix method and withPowheg+Pythia8 at particle level. The up
and down variations are symmetrised by taking the maximum of either
of them. A 2D smoothing is applied ( in p
avg
T and in η) with a Gaussian
kernel. c MC modelling uncertainty, evaluated either at reconstruction
level in the dashed line or at particle level in the solid line. A smoothing
is applied after the computation of
⏐⏐
⏐
cPowheg+Pythia8
cPowheg+Herwig 7
− 1
⏐⏐
⏐
Fig. 13 Systematic uncertainties in theηintercalibration as a function
of ηdet for PFlow+JES jets of a pT = 35 GeV, b pT = 450 GeV. The
total systematic uncertainty is represented by the middle shaded band,
which is a quadrature sum of different components of systematic uncer-
tainties marked by coloured lines. The statistical uncertainty is indicated
by the lowest shaded band. The highest shaded band shows the quadra-
ture sum of different components of systematic uncertainties using MC
modelling uncertainty estimated at reconstruction level. A smoothing
procedure is applied to the systematic uncertainty to suppress statistical
ﬂuctuations. The precision is limited by the MC modelling uncertainty
estimated at particle level and variations in the selection criteria for
p
jet 3
T / pavg
T
of pref
T ,t h e pT of the reference Z/γ boson:
RMPF =
⟨
1 + ˆnref · ⃗E miss
T
pref
T
⟩
where ⃗E miss
T is computed using particle-ﬂow objects cali-
brated at the EM scale.
Z+jet events are selected using either the lowest- pT
unprescaled dielectron or dimuon trigger. The lowest- pT
threshold in the dielectron trigger corresponds to 15 GeV for
each electron while the lowest- pT threshold in the dimuon
trigger corresponds to 14 GeV [64,65] for each muon. Both
the leptons are required to have pT > 20 GeV to have fully
efﬁcient triggers. Electrons or muons must satisfy loose iden-
tiﬁcation and isolation criteria [62,63]. Electrons are required
to fall within |η|= 2.47 and are rejected if they fall in the
calorimeter crack region 1 .37 < |η| < 1.52. Muons must
fall within |η|= 2.4. The oppositely charged electron and
muon pair is required to have an invariant mass around the
Z boson mass, 66 < mee/μμ < 116 GeV. γ+jet events are
selected using a combination of prescaled and unprescaled
single photon triggers in which the lowest prescaled trigger
ET threshold is 10 GeV. Photon candidates entering the anal-
ysis are required to have Eγ
T > 25 GeV and|ηγ| < 1.37 and
123

===== PAGE 20 =====
761 Page 20 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 14 The MPF response as a function of pref
T measured in data and
simulations in Z+jet events fora Z → ee and b Z → μμ. The data are
represented by the black dots. The MadGraph+Pythia8 predictions
are represented by the triangles while the Sherpa predictions are rep-
resented by the inverted triangles. The MC-to-data response ratios are
shown in the bottom panel. The error bars correspond to the statistical
uncertainties
to satisfy the tight identiﬁcation and isolation selection crite-
ria [62]. The jet is removed if it falls within/Delta1R = 0.4 (0.35)
of a photon (lepton).
Further selection criteria are imposed in theZ/γ+jet mea-
surements to reduce the impact from pile-up and additional
parton radiations. To suppress contamination from pile-up,
jets are required to satisfy the cleaning criteria and to sat-
isfy the JVT requirement. Events must contain a jet with
p
T greater than 10 GeV that falls within |η|= 0.8. To
suppress effects from additional parton radiations, further
requirements are imposed on the azimuthal angle between
the reference boson and the leading jet /Delta1φref, jet > 2.9 and
pT of the subleading jet pT < max(0.3 × pref
T , 12) GeV,
where the subleading jet falls within |η|= 4.5.
The MPF response as a function of reference boson pT is
shown in Figs. 14 and 15 using Z+jet and γ+jet events for
data and two distinct MC samples. The MC sample used to
derive the nominal calibration forZ+jet (γ+jet) corresponds
to MadGraph+Pythia8 (Pythia8). The alternative MC
sample corresponds to Sherpa to determine the uncertainty
from the MC event modelling. The dip in the MPF response
at low pref
T arises due to two opposing effects: the jet recon-
struction threshold which tends to increase the response at
the lowest jet pT values between 17 GeV and 20 GeV and the
apparent rise in MPF response as a function of pT.T h eM C -
Fig. 15 The MPF response as a function of pref
T measured in data and
simulations for γ+jet. The data are represented by the black dots. The
Pythia8 predictions are represented by the triangles while theSherpa
predictions are represented by the inverted triangles. The MC-to-data
response ratios are shown in the bottom panel. The error bars correspond
to the statistical uncertainties
to-data response ratio are rather consistent between Z+jet
and γ+jet.
123

===== PAGE 21 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 21 of 41 761
Fig. 16 Systematic uncertainty in the MPF response ratios as a func-
tion of pT for jets calibrated up to, and including, theηintercalibration
for a Z(→ ee)+jet events and b Z(→ μμ)+jet events. Uncertainties
arise from JVT, the subleading jet veto and /Delta1φref, jet requirement in
the analysis selection. Uncertainties due to electron and muon energy
scale and resolution are propagated through the analysis. The statistical
uncertainty of the MC-to-data response ratios and the uncertainties due
to choice of event generators are shown. Each uncertainty is smoothed
to suppress statistical ﬂuctuations
Several sources of systematic uncertainties are consid-
ered. Uncertainties due to the energy scale and resolution
of the reference objectse/μ/γ are derived from existing cal-
ibrations for each object and propagated through the corre-
sponding analysis. The impact of additional parton radiation
on the response measurement is evaluated by varying the
selection criteria for the subleading jet veto and /Delta1φ
ref, jet.
Uncertainties arising from pile-up suppression are estimated
by comparing the response measurement between tighter
and looser JVT working points. Uncertainties arising from
photon purity in γ+jet events are assessed using the same
methodology documented in [66], in which one of the jets is
misreconstructed as a photon. The pseudo-experiments are
implemented in the estimate of uncertainties to reduce sta-
tistical ﬂuctuations.
The uncertainties for the calibration are presented for the
Z → ee and Z → μμ measurements in Fig. 16 and for the
γ+jet measurement in Fig. 17. Uncertainties are dominated
by the modelling in MC simulations in the low- and medium-
p
T regions, and by the energy scale of the photon/electron
for pT > 100 GeV.
The derived calibrations are stable over a range of pile-
up conditions in Run 2. Figure 18 shows the MC-to-data
response ratios as a function ofμ and NPV in γ+jet event for
Fig. 17 Systematic uncertainty in the MPF response ratios as a func-
tion of pT for jets calibrated up to, and including, theηintercalibration
in γ+jet events. Uncertainties arise from JVT, the subleading jet veto
and /Delta1φref, jet requirement in the analysis selection. Uncertainties due to
photon energy scale and resolution are propagated through the analy-
sis. The statistical uncertainty of the MC-to-data response ratios and the
uncertainties due to choice of event generators and photon purities are
shown. Each uncertainty is smoothed to suppress statistical ﬂuctuation
123

===== PAGE 22 =====
761 Page 22 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
45 < pref
T < 65 GeV. The in situ calibration is consistent as
a function ofμ or NPV, demonstrating the expected stability.
5.3 b-quark jet energy scale in γ+jet balance
The measurement of the top-quark mass is limited by the
b-quark jet energy scale ( bJES) and a measurement of the
bJES can potentially improve the precision. The direct bal-
ance (DB) technique is used in γ+jet events to measure the
balance of a (b-tagged) jet against a well-calibrated photon. It
represents the ﬁrst measurement determining the b−tagged
jet energy scale using the PFlow jets in this event topol-
ogy. p
ref
T is deﬁned in terms of the reference object pT,
pref
T = pT × cos /Delta1φ, where pT is the transverse momen-
tum of the photon, and /Delta1φis the azimuthal angle difference
between the photon and the leading jet.
The selections are similar to theγ+jet selection in the MPF
method unless stated otherwise. Events must have a jet with
pT > 20 GeV instead of pT > 10 GeV in the central detec-
tor region (|ηdet| < 0.8). The higher jet pT threshold arises
due to the tighter requirement on the jet transverse momen-
tum in the b−tagging algorithm used. To suppress addi-
tional radiation, the DB technique requires the subleading jet
p
j2
T < max(0.1 × pref
T , 15) GeV and /Delta1φγ,jet > 2.8. Jets in
the inner tracker coverage (|η| < 2.5) containing b−hadrons
are identiﬁed (b−tagged) by a multivariate algorithm (DL1r)
using information of impact parameters of tracks and dis-
placed vertices [67]. The b−tagging working points with an
average efﬁciency of 60%, 70%, 77% and 85% are used. The
events are classiﬁed into inclusive and b-tagged categories.
The b−tagged category is predominantly composed of the
b− and c− quark jets while the light quark and gluon jets
dominates the inclusive categories. A jet is labelled as b−
(c−) quark jets if any b(c) parton or hadron at particle level
is found to be within a cone of /Delta1R < 0.3 around a recon-
structed jet, otherwise it is labelled as light quark or gluons.
A summary of the jet ﬂavour composition for inclusive and
b−tagged jets is documented in Table2. The 85%b−tagging
working points are dominated by the presence of c−quark
jets and the measurement can be used to constrain the cJES
in H → c¯c analysis [68] for instance.
Figure 19 shows the DB response as a function of the
reference photon pT for the inclusive and b-tagged jets
using b−tagging working points with an average efﬁciency
of 77%. The MC simulations are in reasonable agreement
with data. The MC-to-data response ratios are found to be
slightly below one for b−tagged jets and above one for
inclusive jets in almost all bins. The difference between DB
response between Pythia8 and Sherpa arises due to dif-
ferent b−quark fragmentation and decay models. Checks on
the apparent rise of the DB response around 150 GeV for
b−tagged jets are done such as the quality of the DB response
ﬁt, b−tagging scale factors applied in simulations, the jet
ﬂavour composition between neighbouring p
T bins and a
looser second jet veto with pj2
T < 0.2 × pref
T . None of the
checks mentioned above is responsible for the DB response
rise around 150 GeV. Hence these checks suggest that the
feature is due to statistical ﬂuctuations. Figure 20 shows the
uncertainties for the b-tagged case with a precision between
1% and 5% and inclusive jets with a precision up to 1% for the
chosen pT range. For b−tagged jets, uncertainties are dom-
inated by the event generator modelling everywhere, while
for inclusive jets the precision is limited by the event gener-
ator modelling, photon purity and the subleading jet veto at
lower p
T and photon energy scale for pT > 70 GeV.
A new observable ˜RbJES is deﬁned as a double ratio of
b−tagged response to the inclusive jet response to further
measure the energy scale differences between the b-tagged
and inclusive jets,
˜RbJES =
RMC
b-tagged/Rdata
b-tagged
RMC
inclusive
/Rdata
inclusive
.
As the nominal jet calibration is determined relative to the
inclusive jet, such a double ratio can be applied on top of the
nominal jet calibration to correctbJES. The value of ˜RbJES is
determined to be below one using both the MC samples with
a slightly higher response in Pythia8 than Sherpa shown
in Fig. 21. The difference between the two event generators
arises from different fragmentation and decay models. The
ratio, ˜R
bJES, is also determined inclusively for photon pref
T
between 85 and 1000 GeV for various b-tagging working
points in Table3 to increase statistical precision forPythia8
and Sherpa, respectively. It is foreseen to provide MC spe-
ciﬁc calibrations for the bJES to reduce the effects arising
from MC modelling. The ratio, ˜RbJES, was measured with
unprecedented precision up to 1%. This in turn will improve
precision in measurements of top mass.
6 Conclusion
The determination of the jet energy scale (JES) is presented
using data recorded by the ATLAS experiment in pp col-
lisions at √
s = 13 TeV. The calibration scheme used for
anti-kt jets reconstructed using radius parameter R = 0.4
consists of two steps: a Monte-Carlo-based calibration that
corrects jets to the truth jet scale, and an in situ calibration
correcting the scale of jets in data.
The simulation-based calibration implements several new
strategies to improve the pile-up stability at higher p
T,c l o -
sure, energy resolution, and modelling uncertainties of the
jets. Biases related to the determination of the pile-up pT
density were a dominant source of uncertainty for jets with
pT below 30 GeV. The new procedure presented, combined
123

===== PAGE 23 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 23 of 41 761
Fig. 18 The MPF response for 45 < pref
T < 65 GeV measured in
data and simulations as a function of a μ and b NPV. The data are rep-
resented by the black dots. The Pythia8 predictions are represented
by the triangles while the Sherpa predictions are represented by the
inverted triangles. The MC-to-data response ratios are shown in the
bottom panel. The error bars correspond to the statistical uncertainties
Table 2 The average fractions of jet ﬂavours for various b−tagging working points and inclusive jet
Hadron Label Inclusive jet WP 60% WP 70% WP 77% WP 85%
Pythia8 Sherpa Pythia 8 Sherpa Pythia 8 Sherpa Pythia 8 Sherpa Pythia 8 Sherpa
b 1.9% 2.0% 92.1% 85.8% 81.3% 79.2% 59.2% 61.7% 36.3% 39.2%
c 14.2% 10.6% 2.3% 1.6% 13.4% 9.2% 35.4% 27.0% 57.4% 49.7%
Light q or gluon 83.9% 87.4% 5.6% 12.6% 5.3% 11.6% 5.4% 11.3% 6.3% 11.1%
with improvements to the multi-parton interactions model in
Monte Carlo simulation, reduces this uncertainty by a factor
of seven. Following this, a new residual calibration is applied,
which reduces the effects of pile-up by simultaneously cor-
recting forμ, N
PV, and pT. For the absolute MCJES, a new ﬁt
method based on splines is used, leading to better closure for
jets with p
T below 30 GeV. Finally, for the global calibration,
which improves the resolution of jets and reduces the differ-
ence between the energy scale for quark- and gluon-initiated
jets, a new method using a DNN is used, which allows infor-
mation from correlated observables to be used for this cal-
ibration step. This DNN results in an average improvement
of the JER of around 15% improvement compared with pre-
vious methods, with maximum improvement of over 40%.
Following these simulation-based calibration steps, the
full Run 2 data sample is used to do a residual in situ cali-
bration to correct the data-MC differences and constrain the
uncertainties. Dijet events are used to calibrate jets in the
forward region relative to the central region as a function of
jet transverse momentum and pseudorapidity. The precision
is improved by up to a factor of two in the forward detector
region at low p
T by evaluating the MC modelling uncertainty
at particle level instead of reconstruction level. Central jets
are calibrated by exploiting the balance between jets recoiling
against either a photon or a Z boson. Unprecedented preci-
sion up to 1% is achieved in the in situ analysis. For the ﬁrst
time, the energy scale of b-tagged jets relative to inclusive
jets is determined with precision up to 1% in γ+jet events.
This result is important for improving precision in analysis
sensitive to b−JES such as the top quark mass and H → b¯b
measurements.
123

===== PAGE 24 =====
761 Page 24 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Fig. 19 The DB response as a function of pref
T measured in data and
simulations for a γ+jet and b γ+b-tagged jet. The data are represented
by the black dots and thePythia8 are represented by the triangles, and
the (Sherpa) predictions are represented by the inverted triangles. The
MC-to-data response ratios are shown in the bottom panel. The error
bars correspond to the statistical uncertainties
Fig. 20 Summaries of uncertainties in the MC-to-data response ratio
as a function ofpref
T for aγ+jet andbγ+b-tagged jet. Uncertainties can
arise from photon purity, b−tagging, JVT, /Delta1φand subleading jet veto
requirement. Uncertainties due the photon energy scale and resolution
are propagated through the analysis
123

===== PAGE 25 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 25 of 41 761
Fig. 21 ˜RbJES as a function of reference photon pT determined using either Pythia8o r Sherpa for b-tagging working point with an efﬁciency of
a 60%, b 70%, c 77% and d 85%. The error bars correspond to the statistical uncertainties
Table 3 ˜RbJES obtained for various b−tagging working points using Pythia8a n dSherpa separately for 85 < pT < 1000 GeV
WP Pythia 8S h e r p a
60% 0 .990 ± 0.010 (stat.) ± 0.013 (syst.) 0 .984 ± 0.010 (stat.) ± 0.013 (syst.)
70% 0 .984 ± 0.010 (stat.) ± 0.011 (syst.) 0 .974 ± 0.010 (stat.) ± 0.012 (syst.)
77% 0 .978 ± 0.006 (stat.) ± 0.011 (syst.) 0 .966 ± 0.006 (stat.) ± 0.011 (syst.)
85% 0 .989 ± 0.004 (stat.) ± 0.007 (syst.) 0 .979 ± 0.004 (stat.) ± 0.007 (syst.)
Acknowledgements We thank CERN for the very successful oper-
ation of the LHC, as well as the support staff from our institutions
without whom ATLAS could not be operated efﬁciently. We acknowl-
edge the support of ANPCyT, Argentina; YerPhI, Armenia; ARC, Aus-
tralia; BMWFW and FWF, Austria; ANAS, Azerbaijan; CNPq and
FAPESP, Brazil; NSERC, NRC and CFI, Canada; CERN; ANID, Chile;
CAS, MOST and NSFC, China; Minciencias, Colombia; MEYS CR,
Czech Republic; DNRF and DNSRC, Denmark; IN2P3-CNRS and
CEA-DRF/IRFU, France; SRNSFG, Georgia; BMBF, HGF and MPG,
Germany; GSRI, Greece; RGC and Hong Kong SAR, China; ISF and
Benoziyo Center, Israel; INFN, Italy; MEXT and JSPS, Japan; CNRST,
Morocco; NWO, Netherlands; RCN, Norway; MEiN, Poland; FCT, Por-
tugal; MNE/IFA, Romania; MESTD, Serbia; MSSR, Slovakia; ARRS
and MIZŠ, Slovenia; DSI/NRF, South Africa; MICINN, Spain; SRC
and Wallenberg Foundation, Sweden; SERI, SNSF and Cantons of
Bern and Geneva, Switzerland; MOST, Taiwan; TENMAK, Türkiye;
STFC, United Kingdom; DOE and NSF, United States of America. In
addition, individual groups and members have received support from
BCKDF, CANARIE, Compute Canada and CRC, Canada; PRIMUS
21/SCI/017 and UNCE SCI/013, Czech Republic; COST, ERC, ERDF,
Horizon 2020 and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, European Union;
Investissements d’Avenir Labex, Investissements d’Avenir Idex and
ANR, France; DFG and AvH Foundation, Germany; Herakleitos, Thales
and Aristeia programmes co-ﬁnanced by EU-ESF and the Greek NSRF,
123

===== PAGE 26 =====
761 Page 26 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
Greece; BSF-NSF and MINERV A, Israel; Norwegian Financial Mech-
anism 2014-2021, Norway; NCN and NAW A, Poland; La Caixa Bank-
ing Foundation, CERCA Programme Generalitat de Catalunya and
PROMETEO and GenT Programmes Generalitat Valenciana, Spain;
Göran Gustafssons Stiftelse, Sweden; The Royal Society and Lever-
hulme Trust, United Kingdom. The crucial computing support from
all WLCG partners is acknowledged gratefully, in particular from
CERN, the ATLAS Tier-1 facilities at TRIUMF (Canada), NDGF (Den-
mark, Norway, Sweden), CC-IN2P3 (France), KIT/GridKA (Germany),
INFN-CNAF (Italy), NL-T1 (Netherlands), PIC (Spain), ASGC (Tai-
wan), RAL (UK) and BNL (USA), the Tier-2 facilities worldwide and
large non-WLCG resource providers. Major contributors of computing
resources are listed in Ref. [69].
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-
bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation,
distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you
give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, pro-
vide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes
were made. The images or other third party material in this article
are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indi-
cated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not
included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permit-
ted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copy-
right holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecomm
ons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Funded by SCOAP
3.S C O A P3 supports the goals of the International
Year of Basic Sciences for Sustainable Development.
References
1. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The anti-kt jet clustering algo-
rithm. JHEP 04, 063 (2008). arXiv:0802.1189 [hep-ph]
2. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, Dispelling the N3 myth for the kt jet-
ﬁnder. Phys. Lett. B 641, 57 (2006). arXiv:hep-ph/0512210
3. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet reconstruction and performance using
particle ﬂow with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 77, 466
(2017). arXiv:1703.10485 [hep-ex]
4. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy scale and resolution measured in
proton–proton collisions at√ s = 13 TeV with the ATLAS detector.
Eur. Phys. J. C 81, 689 (2020). arXiv:2007.02645 [hep-ex]
5. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy measurement with the ATLAS
detector in proton–proton collisions at √ s = 7 TeV. Eur. Phys. J.
C 73, 2304 (2013). arXiv:1112.6426 [hep-ex]
6. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy measurement and its systematic
uncertainty in proton–proton collisions at √ s = 7T e V w i t h t h e
ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 75, 17 (2015). arXiv:1406.0076
[hep-ex]
7. ATLAS Collaboration, Determination of jet calibration and
energy resolution in proton–proton collisions at √ s = 8T e V
using the ATLAS detector, Eur. Phys. J. C 80, 1104 (2020).
arXiv:1910.04482 [hep-ex]
8. ATLAS Collaboration, Jet energy scale measurements and their
systematic uncertainties in proton–proton collisions at √ s =
13 TeV with the ATLAS detector. Phys. Rev. D96, 072002 (2017).
arXiv:1703.09665 [hep-ex]
9. ATLAS Collaboration, In situ calibration of large-radius jet energy
and mass in 13 TeV proton–proton collisions with the ATLAS
detector. Eur. Phys. J. C79, 135 (2019).arXiv:1807.09477 [hep-ex]
10. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Experiment at the CERN Large
Hadron Collider. JINST 3, S08003 (2008)
11. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Insertable B-Layer: Techni-
cal Design Report, ATLAS-TDR-19; CERN-LHCC-2010-013,
(2010). https://cds.cern.ch/record/1291633 [Addendum: ATLAS-
TDR-19-ADD-1, CERN-LHCC-2012-009, 2012, https://cds.cern.
ch/record/1451888]
12. B. Abbott et al., Production and integration of the ATLAS
Insertable B-Layer. JINST 13, T05008 (2018). arXiv:1803.00844
[physics.ins-det]
13. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS trigger system
in 2015. Eur. Phys. J. C77, 317 (2017).arXiv:1611.09661 [hep-ex]
14. ATLAS Collaboration, The ATLAS Collaboration Software and
Firmware, ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-001 (2021).https://cds.cern.ch/
record/2767187
15. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS data quality operations and per-
formance for 2015.2018 data-taking. JINST 15, P04003 (2020).
arXiv:1911.04632 [physics.ins-det]
16. T. Sjostrand et al., An introduction to PYTHIA 8.2. Comput. Phys.
Commun. 191, 159 (2015). arXiv:1410.3012 [hep-ph]
17. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Pythia 8 tunes to 7 TeV data, ATL-
PHYS-PUB-2014-021 (2014).https://cds.cern.ch/record/1966419
18. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions with LHC data. Nucl. Phys. B
867, 244 (2013). arXiv:1207.1303 [hep-ph]
19. D.J. Lange, The EvtGen particle decay simulation package. Nucl.
Instrum. Meth. A 462, 152 (2001)
20. E. Bothmann et al., Event generation with Sherpa 2.2. SciPost Phys.
7, 034 (2019). arXiv:1905.09127 [hep-ph]
21. S. Schumann, F. Krauss, A parton shower algorithm based
on Catani-Seymour dipole factorisation. JHEP 03, 038 (2008).
arXiv:0709.1027 [hep-ph]
22. S. Dulat et al., New parton distribution functions from a global
analysis of quantum chromodynamics. Phys. Rev. D 93, 033006
(2016). arXiv:1506.07443 [hep-ph]
23. J.-C. Winter, F. Krauss, G. Soff, A modiﬁed cluster-hadronization
model. Eur. Phys. J. C 36, 381 (2004). arXiv:hep-ph/0311085
24. T. Sjöstrand, S. Mrenna, P.Z. Skands, PYTHIA 6.4 physics and
manual. JHEP 05, 026 (2006). arXiv:hep-ph/0603175
25. M. Bähr et al., Herwig++ physics and manual. Eur. Phys. J. C 58,
639 (2008). arXiv:0803.0883 [hep-ph]
26. J. Bellm et al., Herwig 7.0/Herwig++ 3.0 release note. Eur. Phys.
J. C 76, 196 (2016). arXiv:1512.01178 [hep-ph]
27. J. Bellm et al., Herwig 7.1 Release Note (2017).arXiv:1705.06919
[hep-ph]
28. S. Gieseke, P. Stephens, B. Webber, New formalism for QCD parton
showers. JHEP 12, 045 (2003). arXiv:hep-ph/0310083
29. S. Plätzer, S. Gieseke, Coherent parton showers with local recoils.
JHEP 01, 024 (2011). arXiv:0909.5593 [hep-ph]
30. S. Plätzer, S. Gieseke, Dipole showers and automated NLO match-
ing in Herwig++. Eur. Phys. J. C72, 2187 (2012).arXiv:1109.6256
[hep-ph]
31. S. Catani, M.H. Seymour, A General algorithm for calculating jet
cross-sections in NLO QCD. Nucl. Phys. B485, 291 (1997) [Erra-
tum: Nucl. Phys. B 510, 503–504 (1998)]. arXiv:hep-ph/9605323
32. S. Catani, S. Dittmaier, M.H. Seymour, Z. Trocsanyi, The dipole
formalism for next-to-leading order QCD calculations with mas-
sive partons. Nucl. Phys. B627, 189 (2002).arXiv:hep-ph/0201036
33. P. Nason, A new method for combining NLO QCD with
shower Monte Carlo algorithms. JHEP 11, 040 (2004).
arXiv:hep-ph/0409146
34. S. Frixione, P. Nason, C. Oleari, Matching NLO QCD computations
with parton shower simulations: the POWHEG method. JHEP 11,
070 (2007). arXiv:0709.2092 [hep-ph]
35. S. Alioli, P. Nason, C. Oleari, E. Re, A general framework for
implementing NLO calculations in shower Monte Carlo programs:
the POWHEG BOX. JHEP06, 043 (2010).arXiv:1002.2581 [hep-
ph]
36. R.D. Ball et al., Parton distributions for the LHC run II. JHEP 04,
040 (2015). arXiv:1410.8849 [hep-ph]
123

===== PAGE 27 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 27 of 41 761
37. J. Alwall et al., The automated computation of tree-level and next-
to-leading order differential cross sections, and their matching to
parton shower simulations. JHEP07, 079 (2014).arXiv:1405.0301
[hep-ph]
38. ATLAS Collaboration, Example ATLAS tunes of Pythia8,
Pythia6 and Powheg to an observable sensitive toZ boson trans-
verse momentum, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2013-017 (2013).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1629317
39. ATLAS Collaboration, The Pythia 8 A3 tune description of
ATLAS minimum bias and inelastic measurements incorporating
the Donnachie–Landshoff diffractive model, ATL-PHYS-PUB-
2016-017 (2016). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2206965
40. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, FastJet user manual. Eur. Phys.
J. C 72, 1896 (2012). arXiv:1111.6097 [hep-ph]
41. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, Pileup subtraction using jet areas. Phys.
Lett. B 659, 119 (2008). arXiv:0707.1378 [hep-ph]
42. M. Cacciari, G.P. Salam, G. Soyez, The catchment area of jets.
JHEP 04, 005 (2008). arXiv:0802.1188 [hep-ph]
43. S.D. Ellis, D.E. Soper, Successive combination jet algo-
rithm for hadron collisions. Phys. Rev. D 48, 3160 (1993).
arXiv:hep-ph/9305266
44. S. Catani, Y .L. Dokshitzer, M.H. Seymour, B.R. Webber,
Longitudinally-invariant k
⊥ -clustering algorithms for hadron-
hadron collisions. Nucl. Phys. B 406, 187 (1993)
45. T. Gleisberg et al., Event generation with SHERPA 1.1. JHEP 02,
007 (2009). arXiv:0811.4622 [hep-ph]
46. H. Abreu et al., Performance of the electronic readout of the ATLAS
liquid argon calorimeters. J. Instrum. 5, P09003 (2010)
47. A. Cukierman, B. Nachman, Mathematical properties of numerical
inversion for jet calibrations. Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A858, 1 (2017).
arXiv:1609.05195 [physics.data-an]
48. K. Pearson, X. On the criterion that a given system of deviations
from the probable in the case of a correlated system of variables is
such that it can be reasonably supposed to have arisen from random
sampling. Lond. Edinb. Dublin Philos. Mag. J. Sci.50, 157 (1900)
49. H.B. Curry, I.J. Schoenberg, On Polya frequency functions IV: the
fundamental spline functions and their limits. J. Anal. Math. 17,
71 (1966)
50. B. Grimstad et al., SPLINTER: a library for multivariate function
approximation with splines (2015). http://github.com/bgrimstad/
splinter. Accessed 16 May 2015
51. ATLAS Collaboration, Dependence of the jet energy scale on
the particle content of hadronic jets in the ATLAS detector sim-
ulation, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2022-021 (2022). https://cds.cern.ch/
record/2808016
52. ATLAS Collaboration, Generalized numerical inversion: a neutral
network approach to jet calibration, ATL-PHYS-PUB-2018-013
(2018). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2630972
53. F. Chollet et al., Keras (2015). https://keras.io
54. D.P. Kingma, J. Ba, Adam: a method for stochastic optimization
(2017). arXiv:1412.6980 [cs.LG]
55. P. Ramachandran, B. Zoph, Q.V . Le, Searching for activation func-
tions (2017). arXiv:1710.05941
56. S. Cheong, A. Cukierman, B. Nachman, M. Safdari, A. Schwartz-
man, Parametrizing the detector response with neural networks.
JINST 15, P01030 (2020). arXiv:1910.03773 [physics.data-an]
57. ATLAS Collaboration, Determination of the jet energy scale
and resolution at ATLAS using Z/γ-jet events in data at√
s = 8 TeV, ATLAS-CONF-2015-057 (2015). https://cds.cern.
ch/record/2059846
58. ATLAS Collaboration, Selection of jets produced in 13 TeV
proton–proton collisions with the ATLAS detector, ATLAS-
CONF-2015-029 (2015). https://cds.cern.ch/record/2037702
59. ATLAS Collaboration, Tagging and suppression of pileup jets with
the ATLAS detector, ATLAS-CONF-2014-018 (2014).https://cds.
cern.ch/record/1700870
60. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of pile-up mitigation tech-
niques for jets in pp collisions at √
s = 8 TeV using the ATLAS
detector. Eur. Phys. J. C76, 581 (2016).arXiv:1510.03823 [hep-ex]
61. V . Lendermann et al., Combining triggers in HEP data analysis.
Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 604, 707 (2009). arXiv:0901.4118 [hep-
ex]
62. ATLAS Collaboration, Electron and photon performance measure-
ments with the ATLAS detector using the 2015–2017 LHC proton–
proton collision data. JINST14, P12006 (2019).arXiv:1908.00005
[hep-ex]
63. ATLAS Collaboration, Muon reconstruction and identiﬁcation efﬁ-
ciency in ATLAS using the full Run 2 pp collision data set at√
s = 13 TeV. Eur. Phys. J. C 81, 578 (2021). arXiv:2012.00578
[hep-ex]
64. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of the ATLAS muon triggers
in Run 2. JINST 15, P09015 (2020). arXiv:2004.13447 [hep-ex]
65. ATLAS Collaboration, Performance of electron and photon trig-
gers in ATLAS during LHC Run 2. Eur. Phys. J. C 80, 47 (2020).
arXiv:1909.00761 [hep-ex]
66. ATLAS Collaboration, Measurement of the ratio of cross sections
for inclusive isolated-photon production in pp collisions at √ s =
13 and 8 TeV with the ATLAS detector. JHEP 04, 093 (2019).
arXiv:1901.10075 [hep-ex]
67. ATLAS ﬂavour-tagging algorithms for the LHC Run 2pp collision
dataset (2022). arXiv:2211.16345 [physics.data-an]
68. ATLAS Collaboration, Direct constraint on the Higgs-charm cou-
pling from a search for Higgs boson decays into charm quarks
with the ATLAS detector. Eur. Phys. J. C 82, 717 (2022).
arXiv:2201.11428 [hep-ex]
69. ATLAS Collaboration, ATLAS Computing Acknowledgements,
ATL-SOFT-PUB-2021-003 (2021). https://cds.cern.ch/record/
2776662
123

===== PAGE 28 =====
761 Page 28 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
ATLAS Collaboration⋆
G. Aad102 , B. Abbott120 , K. Abeling55 , N. J. Abicht49 , S. H. Abidi29 , A. Aboulhorma35e , H. Abramowicz151 ,
H. Abreu150 , Y . Abulaiti 117 , A. C. Abusleme Hoffman 137a , B. S. Acharya 69a,69b,n , C. Adam Bourdarios 4 ,
L. Adamczyk85a , L. Adamek 155 , S. V . Addepalli 26 , M .J .A d d i s o n101, J. Adelman 115 , A. Adiguzel 21c ,
T. Adye134 , A. A. Affolder 136 ,Y . A ﬁ k 36 , M .N .A g a r a s13 ,J . A g a r w a l a73a,73b , A. Aggarwal 100 ,
C. Agheorghiesei27c , A. Ahmad36 , F. Ahmadov38,y , W. S. Ahmed104 , S. Ahuja95 ,X .A i62a , G. Aielli76a,76b ,
M. Ait Tamlihat35e , B. Aitbenchikh35a , I. Aizenberg169 , M. Akbiyik100 ,T .P .A .Å k e s s o n98 ,A .V .A k i m o v37 ,
D. Akiyama168 , N .N .A k o l k a r24 , K. Al Khoury 41 , G. L. Alberghi 23b , J. Albert 165 , P. Albicocco 53 ,
G. L. Albouy60 , S. Alderweireldt 52 , M. Aleksa 36 , I. N. Aleksandrov 38 ,C . A l e x a27b , T. Alexopoulos 10 ,
A. Alfonsi114 , F. Alfonsi 23b , M. Alhroob 120 ,B . A l i 132 ,S . A l i 148 , M. Aliev 37 , G. Alimonti 71a ,
W. Alkakhi55 , C. Allaire66 ,B .M .M .A l l b r o o k e146 , C. A. Allendes Flores137f , P. P. Allport20 , A. Aloisio72a,72b ,
F. Alonso90 , C. Alpigiani138 , M. Alvarez Estevez99 , A. Alvarez Fernandez100 ,M .G .A l v i g g i72a,72b ,M .A l y101 ,
Y . Amaral Coutinho82b , A. Ambler 104 , C. Amelung 36, M. Amerl 101 , C. G. Ames 109 , D. Amidei 106 ,
S. P. Amor Dos Santos130a , K. R. Amos163 , V . Ananiev125 , C. Anastopoulos139 , T. Andeen11 , J. K. Anders36 ,
S. Y . Andrean47a,47b , A. Andreazza 71a,71b , S. Angelidakis 9 , A. Angerami 41,aa , A. V . Anisenkov 37 ,
A. Annovi74a , C. Antel 56 , M. T. Anthony 139 , E. Antipov 145 , M. Antonelli 53 , D .J .A .A n t r i m17a ,
F. Anulli75a , M. Aoki83 , T. Aoki153 , J. A. Aparisi Pozo163 , M. A. Aparo146 , L. Aperio Bella48 , C. Appelt18 ,
N. Aranzabal36 , C. Arcangeletti 53 , A .T .H .A r c e51 , E. Arena 92 , J.-F. Arguin 108 , S. Argyropoulos 54 ,
J.-H. Arling48 , A .J .A r m b r u s t e r36 , O. Arnaez 4 , H. Arnold 114 , Z. P. Arrubarrena Tame 109, G. Artoni 75a,75b ,
H. Asada111 ,K . A s a i118 ,S . A s a i153 , N. A. Asbah 61 , J. Assahsah 35d , K. Assamagan 29 , R. Astalos 28a ,
S. Atashi160 ,R .J .A t k i n33a , M. Atkinson162, N. B. Atlay18 , H. Atmani62b, P. A. Atmasiddha106 , K. Augsten132 ,
S. Auricchio72a,72b ,A . D . A u r i o l20 , V .A .A u s t r u p171 , G. Avolio 36 , K. Axiotis 56 , G. Azuelos 108,ac ,
D. Babal28b , H. Bachacou135 , K. Bachas152,q , A. Bachiu34 , F. Backman47a,47b , A. Badea61 , P. Bagnaia75a,75b ,
M. Bahmani18 , A. J. Bailey 163 , V . R. Bailey162 , J. T. Baines134 , C. Bakalis 10 , O. K. Baker 172 , E. Bakos 15 ,
D. Bakshi Gupta8 , R. Balasubramanian 114 , E. M. Baldin 37 , P. Balek 85a , E. Ballabene 23a,23b , F. Balli 135 ,
L. M. Baltes63a , W. K. Balunas 32 ,J . B a l z100 , E. Banas 86 , M. Bandieramonte 129 , A. Bandyopadhyay 24 ,
S. Bansal24 , L. Barak 151 , M. Barakat 48 , E. L. Barberio 105 , D. Barberis 57a,57b , M. Barbero 102 , G. Barbour 96,
K. N. Barends33a , T. Barillari 110 , M-S. Barisits 36 , T. Barklow 143 , P. Baron 122 , D. A. Baron Moreno 101 ,
A. Baroncelli62a , G. Barone 29 ,A . J . B a r r126 ,J . D . B a r r96 , L. Barranco Navarro 47a,47b , F. Barreiro 99 ,
J. Barreiro Guimarães da Costa14a ,U . B a r r o n151 , M. G. Barros Teixeira 130a , S. Barsov 37 , F. Bartels 63a ,
R. Bartoldus143 ,A .E .B a r t o n91 ,P .B a r t o s28a , A. Basan100 , M. Baselga49 , A. Bassalat66,ag , M. J. Basso156a ,
C. R. Basson101 , R. L. Bates59 , S. Batlamous35e, J. R. Batley32 , B. Batool141 , M. Battaglia136 , D. Battulga18 ,
M. Bauce75a,75b , M. Bauer 36 , P. Bauer 24 , L. T. Bazzano Hurrell 30 , J. B. Beacham 51 , T. Beau 127 ,
P. H. Beauchemin158 , F. Becherer 54 , P. Bechtle 24 , H. P. Beck 19,p , K. Becker 167 , A. J. Beddall 21d ,
V . A. Bednyakov38 ,C . P . B e e 145 , L. J. Beemster 15, T. A. Beermann 36 , M. Begalli 82d , M. Begel 29 ,
A. Behera145 , J .K .B e h r48 ,J . F . B e i r e r55 , F. Beisiegel 24 ,M . B e l f k i r159 , G. Bella 151 , L. Bellagamba 23b ,
A. Bellerive34 , P. Bellos 20 , K. Beloborodov 37 , N. L. Belyaev 37 , D. Benchekroun 35a , F. Bendebba 35a ,
Y . Benhammou151 , M. Benoit 29 , J. R. Bensinger 26 , S. Bentvelsen 114 , L. Beresford 48 , M. Beretta 53 ,
E. Bergeaas Kuutmann161 , N. Berger 4 , B. Bergmann 132 , J. Beringer 17a , G. Bernardi 5 , C. Bernius 143 ,
F. U. Bernlochner24 , F. Bernon36,102 ,T .B e r r y95 ,P .B e r t a133 , A. Berthold50 ,I .A .B e r t r a m91 , S. Bethke110 ,
A. Betti75a,75b , A .J .B e v a n94 , M. Bhamjee 33c , S. Bhatta 145 , D. S. Bhattacharya 166 , P. Bhattarai 26 ,
V . S. Bhopatkar121 ,R .B i29,ae, R. M. Bianchi129 , G. Bianco23a,23b , O. Biebel109 , R. Bielski123 , M. Biglietti77a ,
T. R. V . Billoud132 , M. Bindi 55 , A. Bingul 21b ,C . B i n i 75a,75b , A. Biondini 92 , C. J. Birch-sykes 101 ,
G. A. Bird20,134 ,M . B i r m a n 169 ,M . B i r o s 133 , T. Bisanz 49 , E. Bisceglie 43a,43b ,D . B i s w a s 141 ,
A. Bitadze101 ,K . B j ø r k e125 , I. Bloch 48 , C. Blocker 26 ,A . B l u e59 , U. Blumenschein 94 , J. Blumenthal 100 ,
G. J. Bobbink114 , V . S. Bobrovnikov37 , M. Boehler 54 , B. Boehm 166 , D. Bogavac 36 , A. G. Bogdanchikov 37 ,
C. Bohm47a , V . Boisvert 95 , P. Bokan 48 ,T . B o l d85a , M. Bomben 5 , M. Bona 94 , M. Boonekamp 135 ,
C. D. Booth95 , A. G. Borbély 59 , I. S. Bordulev 37 , H. M. Borecka-Bielska 108 , L. S. Borgna 96 , G. Borissov 91 ,
D. Bortoletto126 , D. Boscherini 23b ,M . B o s m a n13 , J .D .B o s s i oS o l a36 , K. Bouaouda 35a , N. Bouchhar 163 ,
J. Boudreau129 , E. V . Bouhova-Thacker 91 , D. Boumediene 40 , R. Bouquet 5 , A. Boveia 119 ,J . B o y d36 ,
D. Boye29 , I .R .B o y k o38 , J. Bracinik 20 , N. Brahimi 62d , G. Brandt 171 , O. Brandt 32 ,F . B r a r e n48 ,
B. Brau103 ,J . E . B r a u123 , R. Brener 169 , L. Brenner 114 , R. Brenner 161 , S. Bressler 169 , D. Britton 59 ,
123

===== PAGE 29 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 29 of 41 761
D. Britzger110 , I. Brock 24 , G. Brooijmans 41 , W. K. Brooks 137f ,E . B r o s t 29 , L .M .B r o w n 165,l ,
L. E. Bruce61, T. L. Bruckler 126 , P. A. Bruckman de Renstrom 86 , B. Brüers 48 , D. Bruncko 28b,* , A. Bruni 23b ,
G. Bruni23b , M. Bruschi 23b ,N . B r u s c i n o75a,75b , T. Buanes 16 , Q. Buat 138 , D. Buchin 110 , A. G. Buckley 59 ,
M. K. Bugge125 , O. Bulekov 37 , B. A. Bullard 143 , A. T. Bunka 142 , S. Burdin 92 ,C . D . B u r g a r d49 ,
A. M. Burger40 , B. Burghgrave 8 , O. Burlayenko 54 , J .T .P .B u r r32 ,C . D . B u r t o n11 , J. C. Burzynski 142 ,
E. L. Busch41 , V . Büscher 100 , P. J. Bussey 59 , J .M .B u t l e r25 , C. M. Buttar 59 , J. M. Butterworth 96 ,
W. Buttinger134 , C. J. Buxo Vazquez 107, A. R. Buzykaev 37 , G. Cabras 23b , S. Cabrera Urbán 163 , D. Caforio 58 ,
H. Cai129 ,Y . C a i14a,14e , V .M .M .C a i r o36 , O. Cakir 3a , N. Calace 36 , P. Calaﬁura 17a , G. Calderini 127 ,
P. Calfayan68 , G. Callea 59 , L. P. Caloba 82b,D . C a l v e t40 ,S . C a l v e t40 ,T . P . C a l v e t102 , M. Calvetti 74a,74b ,
R. Camacho Toro127 , S. Camarda 36 , D. Camarero Munoz 26 , P. Camarri 76a,76b , M. T. Camerlingo 72a,72b ,
D. Cameron125 , C. Camincher 165 , M. Campanelli 96 , A. Camplani 42 , V . Canale 72a,72b , A. Canesse 104 ,
M. Cano Bret80 , J. Cantero 163 ,Y . C a o 162 , F. Capocasa 26 , M. Capua 43a,43b , A. Carbone 71a,71b ,
R. Cardarelli76a , J. C. J. Cardenas 8 , F. Cardillo 163 ,T . C a r l i 36 , G. Carlino 72a , J. I. Carlotto 13 ,
B. T. Carlson129,r , E. M. Carlson 156a,165 , L. Carminati 71a,71b , M. Carnesale 75a,75b , S. Caron 113 ,
E. Carquin137f , S. Carrá 71a,71b , G. Carratta 23a,23b , F. Carrio Argos 33g , J .W .S .C a r t e r155 ,T . M . C a r t e r52 ,
M. P. Casado13,i , M. Caspar48 , E. G. Castiglia172 , F. L. Castillo4 , L. Castillo Garcia13 , V . Castillo Gimenez163 ,
N. F. Castro130a,130e , A. Catinaccio36 ,J .R .C a t m o r e125 , V . Cavaliere29 , N. Cavalli23a,23b , V . Cavasinni74a,74b ,
Y . C. Cekmecelioglu48 , E. Celebi 21a , F. Celli 126 , M. S. Centonze 70a,70b ,K . C e r n y122 , A. S. Cerqueira 82a ,
A. Cerri146 , L. Cerrito 76a,76b , F. Cerutti 17a ,B . C e r v a t o141 , A. Cervelli 23b , G. Cesarini 53 , S. A. Cetin 21d ,
Z. Chadi35a , D. Chakraborty115 , M. Chala130f , J. Chan170 , W. Y . Chan153 , J. D. Chapman32 , E. Chapon135 ,
B. Chargeishvili149b , D. G. Charlton 20 , T. P. Charman 94 , M. Chatterjee 19 , C. Chauhan 133 , S. Chekanov 6 ,
S. V . Chekulaev156a , G .A .C h e l k o v38,a , A. Chen 106 , B. Chen 151 , B. Chen 165 , H. Chen 14c , H. Chen 29 ,
J. Chen62c , J. Chen 142 , M. Chen 126 , S. Chen 153 , S. J. Chen 14c , X. Chen 62c , X. Chen 14b,ab , Y . Chen62a ,
C. L. Cheng170 , H. C. Cheng 64a , S. Cheong 143 , A. Cheplakov 38 , E. Cheremushkina 48 , E. Cherepanova 114 ,
R. Cherkaoui El Moursli35e , E. Cheu 7 , K. Cheung 65 , L. Chevalier 135 , V . Chiarella 53 , G. Chiarelli 74a ,
N. Chiedde102 , G. Chiodini 70a , A. S. Chisholm 20 , A. Chitan 27b , M. Chitishvili 163 , M. V . Chizhov 38 ,
K. Choi11 , A. R. Chomont 75a,75b , Y . Chou103 , E .Y .S .C h o w114 , T. Chowdhury 33g , L. D. Christopher 33g ,
K. L. Chu169,M .C .C h u64a ,X .C h u14a,14e , J. Chudoba131 , J. J. Chwastowski86 ,D .C i e r i110 ,K .M .C i e s l a85a ,
V . Cindro93 , A. Ciocio 17a , F. Cirotto 72a,72b , Z .H .C i t r o n 169 , M. Citterio 71a , D. A. Ciubotaru 27b,
B. M. Ciungu155 ,A . C l a r k56 ,P . J . C l a r k52 , J. M. Clavijo Columbie 48 ,S . E . C l a w s o n48 , C. Clement 47a,47b ,
J. Clercx48 , L. Clissa 23a,23b , Y . Coadou 102 , M. Cobal 69a,69c , A. Coccaro 57b , R. F. Coelho Barrue 130a ,
R. Coelho Lopes De Sa103 , S. Coelli 71a , H. Cohen 151 , A .E .C .C o i m b r a71a,71b ,B . C o l e41 , J. Collot 60 ,
P. Conde Muiño130a,130g , M. P. Connell 33c , S. H. Connell 33c , I. A. Connelly 59 , E .I .C o n r o y 126 ,
F. Conventi72a,ad , H .G .C o o k e20 , A. M. Cooper-Sarkar 126 , A. Cordeiro Oudot Choi 127 , F. Cormier 164 ,
L. D. Corpe40 , M. Corradi 75a,75b , F. Corriveau 104,w , A. Cortes-Gonzalez 18 , M .J .C o s t a163 , F. Costanza 4 ,
D. Costanzo139 , B .M .C o t e119 ,G . C o w a n95 , K. Cranmer 117 , D. Cremonini 23a,23b , S. Crépé-Renaudin 60 ,
F. Crescioli127 , M. Cristinziani 141 , M. Cristoforetti 78a,78b , V . Croft114 ,J . E . C r o s b y121 , G. Crosetti 43a,43b ,
A. Cueto99 , T. Cuhadar Donszelmann 160 ,H . C u i14a,14e ,Z . C u i7 , W. R. Cunningham 59 , F. Curcio 43a,43b ,
P. Czodrowski36 , M. M. Czurylo 63b , M. J. Da Cunha Sargedas De Sousa 62a , J. V . Da Fonseca Pinto 82b ,
C. Da Via101 , W. Dabrowski 85a , T. Dado 49 , S. Dahbi 33g ,T . D a i106 , C. Dallapiccola 103 ,M . D a m 42 ,
G. D’amen29 , V . D’Amico109 ,J . D a m p100 , J. R. Dandoy 128 , M. F. Daneri 30 , M. Danninger 142 ,V . D a o36 ,
G. Darbo57b ,S .D a r m o r a6 ,S .J .D a s29 ,S .D ’ A u r i a71a,71b ,C .D a v i d156b , T. Davidek133 , B. Davis-Purcell34 ,
I. Dawson94 , H. A. Day-hall 132 ,K . D e 8 , R. De Asmundis 72a ,N . D e B i a s e48 ,S . D e C a s t r o23a,23b ,
N. De Groot113 , P. de Jong 114 ,H . D e l a T o r r e107 ,A . D e M a r i a14c , A. De Salvo 75a , U. De Sanctis 76a,76b ,
A. De Santo146 ,J .B .D eV i v i eD eR e g i e60 , D. V . Dedovich38, J. Degens114 , A. M. Deiana44 ,F .D e lC o r s o23a,23b ,
J. Del Peso99 ,F . D e l R i o63a , F. Deliot 135 , C. M. Delitzsch 49 , M. Della Pietra 72a,72b , D. Della V olpe 56 ,
A. Dell’Acqua36 , L. Dell’Asta 71a,71b ,M . D e l m a s t r o4 , P. A. Delsart 60 , S. Demers 172 , M. Demichev 38 ,
S. P. Denisov37 ,L . D ’ E r a m o40 , D. Derendarz 86 , F. Derue 127 ,P . D e r v a n92 , K. Desch 24 , C. Deutsch 24 ,
F. A. Di Bello57a,57b , A. Di Ciaccio 76a,76b , L. Di Ciaccio 4 , A. Di Domenico 75a,75b , C. Di Donato 72a,72b ,
A. Di Girolamo36 , G .D iG r e g o r i o5 , A .D iL u c a 78a,78b , B. Di Micco 77a,77b , R. Di Nardo 77a,77b ,
C. Diaconu102 ,F .A .D i a s114 ,T .D i a sD oV a l e142 ,M .A .D i a z137a,137b , F. G. Diaz Capriles24 , M. Didenko163 ,
E. B. Diehl106 , L. Diehl 54 , S. Díez Cornell 48 , C. Diez Pardos 141 , C. Dimitriadi 24,161 , A. Dimitrievska 17a ,
J. Dingfelder24 , I-M. Dinu 27b , S. J. Dittmeier 63b , F. Dittus 36 ,F . D j a m a 102 , T. Djobava 149b ,
123

===== PAGE 30 =====
761 Page 30 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
J. I. Djuvsland16 , C. Doglioni101,98 , J. Dolejsi133 , Z. Dolezal133 , M. Donadelli82c , B. Dong107 , J. Donini40 ,
A. D’Onofrio77a,77b , M. D’Onofrio92 , J. Dopke134 ,A .D o r i a72a , N. Dos Santos Fernandes130a ,M .T .D o v a90 ,
A. T. Doyle59 , M. A. Draguet 126 , E. Dreyer 169 , I. Drivas-koulouris 10 , A. S. Drobac 158 , M. Drozdova 56 ,
D. Du62a ,T .A .d uP r e e114 , F. Dubinin37 , M. Dubovsky28a , E. Duchovni169 , G. Duckeck109 , O. A. Ducu27b ,
D. Duda52 , A. Dudarev 36 , E. R. Duden 26 , M. D’ufﬁzi 101 , L. Duﬂot 66 , M. Dührssen 36 ,C . D ü l s e n171 ,
A. E. Dumitriu27b , M. Dunford 63a , S. Dungs 49 , K. Dunne 47a,47b , A. Duperrin 102 , H. Duran Yildiz 3a ,
M. Düren58 , A. Durglishvili 149b , B. L. Dwyer 115 , G. I. Dyckes 17a , M. Dyndal 85a , S. Dysch 101 ,
B. S. Dziedzic86 , Z. O. Earnshaw 146 , G .H .E b e r w e i n126 , B. Eckerova28a , S. Eggebrecht 55 , M. G. Eggleston 51,
E. Egidio Purcino De Souza127 , L .F .E h r k e56 , G. Eigen 16 , K. Einsweiler 17a ,T . E k e l o f161 , P. A. Ekman 98 ,
Y . El Ghazali35b , H .E lJ a r r a r i35e,148 , A. El Moussaouy 35a , V . Ellajosyula161 , M. Ellert 161 , F. Ellinghaus 171 ,
A. A. Elliot94 , N. Ellis 36 , J. Elmsheuser 29 , M. Elsing 36 , D. Emeliyanov 134 , Y . Enari 153 ,I . E n e 17a ,
S. Epari13 , J. Erdmann 49 , P. A. Erland 86 , M. Errenst 171 , M. Escalier 66 , C. Escobar 163 , E. Etzion 151 ,
G. Evans130a , H. Evans 68 , L .S .E v a n s95 , M .O .E v a n s146 , A. Ezhilov 37 , S. Ezzarqtouni 35a , F. Fabbri 59 ,
L. Fabbri23a,23b , G. Facini96 , V . Fadeyev136 , R. M. Fakhrutdinov37 , S. Falciano75a , L. F. Falda Ulhoa Coelho36 ,
P. J. Falke24 , J. Faltova 133 ,C . F a n 162 ,Y . F a n 14a , Y . Fang 14a,14e , M. Fanti 71a,71b , M. Faraj 69a,69b ,
Z. Farazpay97, A. Farbin 8 , A. Farilla 77a , T. Farooque 107 , S. M. Farrington 52 , F. Fassi 35e , D. Fassouliotis 9 ,
M. Faucci Giannelli76a,76b , W. J. Fawcett 32 , L. Fayard 66 , P. Federic 133 , P. Federicova 131 , O. L. Fedin 37,a ,
G. Fedotov37 , M. Feickert 170 , L. Feligioni 102 , A. Fell 139 , D. E. Fellers 123 , C. Feng 62b , M. Feng 14b ,
Z. Feng114 , M. J. Fenton 160 , A. B. Fenyuk 37, L. Ferencz 48 , R. A. M. Ferguson 91 , S. I. Fernandez Luengo 137f ,
M. J. V . Fernoux102 , J. Ferrando 48 , A. Ferrari 161 , P. Ferrari 113,114 , R. Ferrari 73a , D. Ferrere 56 ,
C. Ferretti106 , F. Fiedler 100 , A. Filipˇ ciˇc93 , E .K .F i l m e r1 , F. Filthaut 113 , M .C .N .F i o l h a i s130a,130c,c ,
L. Fiorini163 , W. C. Fisher107 , T. Fitschen101 , P. M. Fitzhugh135, I. Fleck 141 , P. Fleischmann106 , T. Flick171 ,
L. Flores128 ,M . F l o r e s33d , L. R. Flores Castillo 64a , F .M .F o l l e g a78a,78b ,N . F o m i n16 ,J . H . F o o 155 ,
B. C. Forland68, A. Formica 135 , A .C .F o r t i101 , E. Fortin 36 , A. W. Fortman 61 , M .G .F o t i17a , L. Fountas 9 ,
D. Fournier66 ,H . F o x91 , P. Francavilla 74a,74b , S. Francescato 61 , S. Franchellucci 56 , M. Franchini 23a,23b ,
S. Franchino63a , D. Francis 36, L. Franco 113 , L. Franconi 48 , M. Franklin 61 , G. Frattari 26 ,A . C . F r e e g a r d94 ,
W. S. Freund82b ,Y . Y . F r i d151 , N. Fritzsche 50 , A. Froch 54 , D. Froidevaux 36 , J .A .F r o s t126 ,Y . F u 62a ,
M. Fujimoto118 , E. Fullana Torregrosa 163,* , E. Furtado De Simas Filho 82b , M. Furukawa 153 , J. Fuster 163 ,
A. Gabrielli23a,23b , A. Gabrielli 155 , P. Gadow 48 , G. Gagliardi 57a,57b , L. G. Gagnon 17a , E .J .G a l l a s126 ,
B. J. Gallop134 ,K .K .G a n119 , S. Ganguly153 ,J .G a o62a ,Y .G a o52 ,F .M .G a r a yW a l l s137a,137b , B. Garcia29,ae,
C. García163 , A. Garcia Alonso 114 , A. G. Garcia Caffaro 172 , J. E. García Navarro 163 , M. Garcia-Sciveres 17a ,
G. L. Gardner128 , R. W. Gardner39 , N. Garelli 158 ,D . G a r g80 ,R . B . G a r g143 , J .M .G a r g a n52, C. A. Garner 155,
S. J. Gasiorowski138 , P. Gaspar 82b , G. Gaudio 73a , V . Gautam 13, P. Gauzzi 75a,75b , I .L .G a v r i l e n k o37 ,
A. Gavrilyuk37 ,C . G a y164 , G. Gaycken 48 , E. N. Gazis 10 , A. A. Geanta 27b ,C . M . G e e136 , C. Gemme 57b ,
M. H. Genest60 , S. Gentile 75a,75b , S. George 95 , W. F. George 20 , T. Geralis 46 , P. Gessinger-Befurt 36 ,
M. E. Geyik171 , M. Ghneimat141 , K. Ghorbanian94 , A. Ghosal141 , A. Ghosh160 , A. Ghosh7 , B. Giacobbe23b ,
S. Giagu75a,75b , P. Giannetti74a , A. Giannini62a ,S .M .G i b s o n95 , M. Gignac136 ,D .T .G i l85b , A. K. Gilbert85a ,
B. J. Gilbert41 , D. Gillberg 34 , G. Gilles 114 , N. E. K. Gillwald 48 , L. Ginabat 127 , D. M. Gingrich 2,ac ,
M. P. Giordani69a,69c , P .F .G i r a u d135 , G. Giugliarelli 69a,69c , D. Giugni 71a , F. Giuli 36 , I. Gkialas 9,j ,
L. K. Gladilin37 ,C .G l a s m a n99 , G. R. Gledhill123 , M. Glisic123, I. Gnesi43b,f ,Y .G o29,ae , M. Goblirsch-Kolb36 ,
B. Gocke49 , D. Godin 108, B. Gokturk 21a , S. Goldfarb 105 , T. Golling 56 , M .G .D .G o l o l o33g, D. Golubkov 37 ,
J. P. Gombas107 , A. Gomes 130a,130b , G. Gomes Da Silva 141 , A. J. Gomez Delegido 163 , R. Gonçalo 130a,130c ,
G. Gonella123 , L. Gonella 20 , A. Gongadze 38 , F. Gonnella 20 , J. L. Gonski 41 , R. Y . González Andana 52 ,
S. González de la Hoz163 , S. Gonzalez Fernandez 13 , R. Gonzalez Lopez 92 , C. Gonzalez Renteria 17a ,
R. Gonzalez Suarez161 , S. Gonzalez-Sevilla56 , G. R. Gonzalvo Rodriguez163 , L. Goossens36 , P. A. Gorbounov37 ,
B. Gorini36 ,E . G o r i n i70a,70b , A. Gorišek 93 , T. C. Gosart 128 , A. T. Goshaw 51 , M. I. Gostkin 38 ,
S. Goswami121 , C. A. Gottardo 36 , M. Gouighri 35b , V . Goumarre 48 , A. G. Goussiou 138 , N. Govender 33c ,
I. Grabowska-Bold85a , K. Graham 34 ,E . G r a m s t a d 125 , S. Grancagnolo 70a,70b , M. Grandi 146 ,
V . Gratchev37,*, P. M. Gravila 27f , F .G .G r a v i l i70a,70b ,H . M . G r a y 17a , M. Greco 70a,70b ,C . G r e f e 24 ,
I. M. Gregor48 , P. Grenier 143 , C. Grieco 13 , A. A. Grillo 136 ,K . G r i m m 31 , S. Grinstein 13,t ,
J.-F. Grivaz66 ,E . G r o s s169 , J. Grosse-Knetter 55 ,C . G r u d106, J. C. Grundy 126 , L. Guan 106 , W. Guan 170 ,
C. Gubbels164 ,J .G .R .G u e r r e r oR o j a s163 , G. Guerrieri69a,69b , F. Guescini110 , R. Gugel100 , J. A. M. Guhit106 ,
A. Guida18 , T. Guillemin 4 , E. Guilloton 167,134 , S. Guindon 36 ,F . G u o 14a,14e ,J . G u o 62c ,L . G u o 48 ,
123

===== PAGE 31 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 31 of 41 761
Y. G u o106 , R. Gupta 48 ,S . G u r b u z24 , S. S. Gurdasani 54 , G. Gustavino 36 ,M . G u t h56 , P. Gutierrez 120 ,
L. F. Gutierrez Zagazeta128 , C. Gutschow96 , C. Gwenlan126 , C. B. Gwilliam92 , E. S. Haaland125 , A. Haas117 ,
M. Habedank48 , C. Haber 17a , H. K. Hadavand 8 , A. Hadef 100 , S. Hadzic 110 , J. J. Hahn 141 , E. H. Haines 96 ,
M. Haleem166 ,J .H a l e y121 ,J .J .H a l l139 , G. D. Hallewell102 ,L .H a l s e r19 , K. Hamano165 , H. Hamdaoui35e ,
M. Hamer24 , G. N. Hamity 52 , E. J. Hampshire 95 ,J . H a n 62b ,K . H a n 62a ,L . H a n 14c ,L . H a n 62a ,
S. Han17a , Y .F .H a n155 , K. Hanagaki 83 , M. Hance 136 , D. A. Hangal 41,aa , H. Hanif 142 , M. D. Hank 128 ,
R. Hankache101 , J. B. Hansen42 , J. D. Hansen42 , P. H. Hansen42 ,K .H a r a157 , D. Harada56 , T. Harenberg171 ,
S. Harkusha37 ,Y . T . H a r r i s126 , N. M. Harrison 119 , P. F. Harrison 167, N .M .H a r t m a n143 , N. M. Hartmann 109 ,
Y. H a s eg aw a140 ,A . H a s i b 52 , S. Haug 19 , R. Hauser 107 ,C . M . H a w k e s20 , R. J. Hawkings 36 ,
Y . Hayashi153 , S. Hayashida 111 , D. Hayden 107 , C. Hayes 106 , R. L. Hayes 114 , C. P. Hays126 , J .M .H a y s94 ,
H. S. Hayward92 ,F . H e 62a ,Y . H e 154 ,Y . H e 127 , N. B. Heatley 94 , V . Hedberg 98 , A. L. Heggelund 125 ,
N. D. Hehir94 , C. Heidegger 54 , K. K. Heidegger 54 , W. D. Heidorn 81 , J. Heilman 34 ,S . H e i m 48 ,
T. Heim17a , J. G. Heinlein 128 , J. J. Heinrich 123 , L. Heinrich 110 , J. Hejbal 131 , L. Helary 48 ,A . H e l d170 ,
S. Hellesund16 , C. M. Helling 164 , S. Hellman 47a,47b , C. Helsens 36 , R. C. W. Henderson 91, L. Henkelmann 32 ,
A. M. Henriques Correia36, H. Herde 98 , Y . Hernández Jiménez 145 , L. M. Herrmann 24 , T. Herrmann 50 ,
G. Herten54 , R. Hertenberger109 ,L .H e r v a s36 , M. E. Hesping100 , N. P. Hessey156a ,H .H i b i84 , S. J. Hillier20 ,
J. R. Hinds107, F. Hinterkeuser 24 ,M . H i r o s e124 ,S . H i r o s e157 , D. Hirschbuehl 171 , T. G. Hitchings 101 ,
B. Hiti93 , J. Hobbs145 , R. Hobincu27e ,N .H o d169 , M. C. Hodgkinson139 , B. H. Hodkinson32 , A. Hoecker36 ,
J. Hofer48 ,T .H o l m24 , M. Holzbock110 ,L .B .A .H .H o m m e l s32 , B. P. Honan101 , J. Hong62c , T. M. Hong129 ,
B. H. Hooberman162 , W. H. Hopkins 6 ,Y . H o r i i111 ,S . H o u148 ,A . S . H o w a r d93 ,J . H o w a r t h59 ,J . H o y a6 ,
M. Hrabovsky122 , A. Hrynevich 48 , T. Hryn’ova 4 ,P . J . H s u65 ,S . - C . H s u138 ,Q . H u 41 ,Y . F . H u14a,14e ,
D. P. Huang96 , S. Huang 64b , X. Huang 14c , Y . Huang 62a , Y . Huang 14a , Z. Huang 101 , Z. Hubacek 132 ,
M. Huebner24 , F. Huegging 24 , T. B. Huffman 126 , C .A .H u g l i48 , M. Huhtinen 36 , S. K. Huiberts 16 ,
R. Hulsken104 , N. Huseynov 12,a ,J . H u s t o n107 ,J . H u t h61 , R. Hyneman 143 , G. Iacobucci 56 , G. Iakovidis 29 ,
I. Ibragimov141 , L. Iconomidou-Fayard 66 , P. Iengo 72a,72b , R. Iguchi 153 ,T . I i z a w a56 ,Y . I k e g a m i83 ,
N. Ilic155 ,H . I m a m35a , T. Ingebretsen Carlson 47a,47b , G. Introzzi 73a,73b , M. Iodice 77a , V . Ippolito 75a,75b ,
R. K. Irwin92 , M. Ishino 153 , W. Islam 170 , C. Issever 18,48 , S. Istin 21a ,H . I t o168 , J. M. Iturbe Ponce 64a ,
R. Iuppa78a,78b , A. Ivina 169 , J .M .I z e n45 , V . Izzo 72a , P. Jacka 131,132 , P. Jackson 1 , R. M. Jacobs 48 ,
B. P. Jaeger142 , C. S. Jagfeld 109 ,P . J a i n54 , G. Jäkel 171 , K. Jakobs 54 , T. Jakoubek 169 ,J . J a m i e s o n59 ,
K. W. Janas85a , A. E. Jaspan92 , M. Javurkova103 , F. Jeanneau135 , L. Jeanty123 , J. Jejelava149a,z , P. Jenni54,g ,
C. E. Jessiman34 , S. Jézéquel4 ,C .J i a62b,J .J i a145 ,X .J i a61 ,X .J i a14a,14e ,Z .J i a14c , Y . Jiang62a, S. Jiggins48 ,
J. Jimenez Pena110 ,S .J i n14c , A. Jinaru27b , O. Jinnouchi154 , P. Johansson139 , K. A. Johns7 , J. W. Johnson136 ,
D. M. Jones32 , E. Jones 48 , P. Jones 32 , R. W. L. Jones 91 , T. J. Jones 92 , R. Joshi 119 , J. Jovicevic 15 ,
X. Ju17a , J. J. Junggeburth 36 , T. Junkermann 63a , A. Juste Rozas 13,t , M. K. Juzek 86 , S. Kabana 137e ,
A. Kaczmarska86 , M. Kado110 , H. Kagan119 , M. Kagan143 , A. Kahn41, A. Kahn128 , C. Kahra100 ,T .K a j i168 ,
E. Kajomovitz150 , N. Kakati169 , I. Kalaitzidou54 , C. W. Kalderon29 , A. Kamenshchikov155 , S. Kanayama154 ,
N. J. Kang136 ,D .K a r33g ,K .K a r a v a126 , M. J. Kareem156b , E. Karentzos54 , I. Karkanias152 , O. Karkout114 ,
S. N. Karpov38 , Z .M .K a r p o v a38 , V . Kartvelishvili 91 , A. N. Karyukhin 37 ,E . K a s i m i152 , J. Katzy 48 ,
S. Kaur34 , K. Kawade 140 , T. Kawamoto 135 ,E . F . K a y36 , F. I. Kaya 158 , S. Kazakos 13 , V . F. Kazanin37 ,
Y. Ke145 , J. M. Keaveney 33a , R. Keeler 165 , G. V . Kehris61 , J .S .K e l l e r34 , A. S. Kelly 96, J. J. Kempster 146 ,
K. E. Kennedy41 , P. D. Kennedy 100 , O. Kepka 131 , B .P .K e r r i d g e167 , S. Kersten 171 , B. P. Kerševan 93 ,
S. Keshri66 , L. Keszeghova28a , S. Ketabchi Haghighat155 , M. Khandoga127 , A. Khanov121 ,A .G .K h a r l a m o v37 ,
T. Kharlamova37 , E. E. Khoda 138 , T .J .K h o o18 , G. Khoriauli 166 , J. Khubua 149b , Y .A .R .K h w a i r a66 ,
M. Kiehn36 , A. Kilgallon 123 , D .W .K i m47a,47b , Y .K .K i m39 ,N . K i m u r a96 , A. Kirchhoff 55 , C. Kirfel 24 ,
F. Kirfel24 ,J . K i r k134 , A. E. Kiryunin 110 , C. Kitsaki 10 ,O . K i v e r n y k24 , M. Klassen 63a , C. Klein 34 ,
L. Klein166 , M .H .K l e i n106 , M. Klein 92 , S. B. Klein 56 , U. Klein 92 , P. Klimek 36 , A. Klimentov 29 ,
T. Klioutchnikova36 , P. Kluit114 , S. Kluth110 , E. Kneringer79 , T. M. Knight155 , A. Knue54 , R. Kobayashi87 ,
S. F. Koch126 , M. Kocian 143 , P. Kodyš 133 , D. M. Koeck 123 , P. T. Koenig 24 ,T . K o f f a s34 ,M . K o l b135 ,
I. Koletsou4 , T. Komarek122 , K. Köneke 54 , A .X .Y .K o n g1 , T. Kono118 , N. Konstantinidis 96 , B. Konya 98 ,
R. Kopeliansky68 , S. Koperny 85a ,K . K o r c y l86 , K. Kordas 152,e , G. Koren 151 ,A . K o r n96 ,S . K o r n55 ,
I. Korolkov13 , N. Korotkova 37 , B. Kortman 114 , O. Kortner 110 , S. Kortner 110 , W. H. Kostecka 115 ,
V . V . Kostyukhin141 , A. Kotsokechagia135 ,A . K o t w a l51 , A. Koulouris 36 , A. Kourkoumeli-Charalampidi73a,73b ,
C. Kourkoumelis9 , E. Kourlitis 6 , O. Kovanda 146 , R. Kowalewski 165 , W. Kozanecki 135 , A. S. Kozhin 37 ,
123

===== PAGE 32 =====
761 Page 32 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
V . A. Kramarenko37 , G. Kramberger93 ,P .K r a m e r100 , M. W. Krasny127 , A. Krasznahorkay36 ,J .A .K r e m e r100 ,
T. Kresse50 , J. Kretzschmar 92 , K. Kreul 18 , P. Krieger155 , S. Krishnamurthy103 ,M .K r i v o s133 , K. Krizka 20 ,
K. Kroeninger49 , H. Kroha 110 ,J .K r o l l131 ,J .K r o l l128 , K. S. Krowpman107 , U. Kruchonak 38 , H. Krüger 24 ,
N. Krumnack81,M .C .K r u s e51 ,J .A .K r z y s i a k86 , O. Kuchinskaia37 , S. Kuday3a , S. Kuehn36 , R. Kuesters54 ,
T. Kuhl48 , V . Kukhtin 38 , Y . Kulchitsky 37,a , S. Kuleshov 137d,137b , M. Kumar 33g , N. Kumari 102 ,
A. Kupco131 , T. Kupfer49, A. Kupich37 , O. Kuprash54 , H. Kurashige84 , L. L. Kurchaninov156a , O. Kurdysh66 ,
Y . A. Kurochkin37 ,A .K u r o v a37 , M. Kuze154 ,A .K .K v a m103 , J. Kvita122 ,T .K w a n104 , N. G. Kyriacou106 ,
L. A. O. Laatu102 , C. Lacasta 163 , F. Lacava75a,75b , H. Lacker 18 , D. Lacour 127 , N .N .L a d96 , E. Ladygin 38 ,
B. Laforge127 , T. Lagouri137e ,S .L a i55 , I. K. Lakomiec85a , N. Lalloue60 , J. E. Lambert165,l , S. Lammers68 ,
W. Lampl7 , C. Lampoudis 152,e , A. N. Lancaster 115 , E. Lançon 29 , U. Landgraf 54 , M. P. J. Landon 94 ,
V . S. Lang54 , R. J. Langenberg 103 , O. K. B. Langrekken 125 , A. J. Lankford 160 , F. Lanni 36 , K. Lantzsch 24 ,
A. Lanza73a , A. Lapertosa 57a,57b , J. F. Laporte 135 ,T . L a r i 71a , F. Lasagni Manghi 23b , M. Lassnig 36 ,
V . Latonova131 , A. Laudrain 100 , A. Laurier 150 ,S . D . L a w l o r95 , Z. Lawrence 101 , M. Lazzaroni 71a,71b ,
B. Le101, E. M. Le Boulicaut 51 , B. Leban 93 , A. Lebedev 81 , M. LeBlanc 36 , F. Ledroit-Guillon 60 ,
A. C. A. Lee96,S . C . L e e148 ,S . L e e47a,47b ,T . F . L e e92 , L. L. Leeuw 33c , H. P. Lefebvre 95 , M. Lefebvre 165 ,
C. Leggett17a , K. Lehmann 142 , G. Lehmann Miotto 36 , M. Leigh 56 , W. A. Leight 103 , W. Leinonen 113 ,
A. Leisos152,s , M .A .L .L e i t e82c , C. E. Leitgeb 48 , R. Leitner 133 , K .J .C .L e n e y44 , T. Lenz24 , S. Leone 74a ,
C. Leonidopoulos52 , A. Leopold 144 ,C . L e r o y 108 ,R . L e s 107 ,C . G . L e s t e r32 , M. Levchenko 37 ,
J. Levêque4 ,D . L e v i n106 , L .J .L e v i n s o n169 , M. P. Lewicki 86 , D .J .L e w i s4 ,A . L i5 ,B . L i62b ,C . L i62a,
C.-Q. Li62c ,H . L i 62a ,H . L i 62b ,H . L i 14c ,H . L i 62b ,K . L i 138 ,L . L i 62c ,M . L i 14a,14e , Q .Y .L i62a ,
S. Li14a,14e ,S . L i 62c,62d,d ,T . L i5,b ,X . L i 104 ,Z . L i 126 ,Z . L i 104 ,Z . L i 92 ,Z . L i 14a,14e , Z. Liang 14a ,
M. Liberatore48 , B. Liberti 76a ,K . L i e 64c , J. Lieber Marin 82b ,H . L i e n68 ,K . L i n 107 , R. E. Lindley 7 ,
J. H. Lindon2 ,A . L i n s s48 , E. Lipeles 128 , A. Lipniacka 16 , A. Lister 164 , J. D. Little 4 ,B . L i u 14a ,
B. X. Liu142 ,D . L i u 62c,62d , J .B .L i u 62a , J .K .K .L i u 32 ,K . L i u 62c,62d ,M . L i u 62a ,M . Y . L i u62a ,
P. Liu14a ,Q . L i u62c,62d,138 ,X . L i u62a ,Y . L i u14d,14e ,Y . L . L i u106 ,Y . W . L i u62a , J. Llorente Merino 142 ,
S. L. Lloyd94 , E. M. Lobodzinska 48 , P. Loch 7 , S. Loffredo 76a,76b , T. Lohse 18 , K. Lohwasser 139 ,
E. Loiacono48 , M. Lokajicek 131 , J. D. Lomas 20 , J .D .L o n g 162 , I. Longarini 160 , L. Longo 70a,70b ,
R. Longo162 , I. Lopez Paz 67 , A. Lopez Solis 48 , J. Lorenz 109 , N. Lorenzo Martinez 4 , A .M .L o r y109 ,
O. Loseva37 ,X . L o u47a,47b ,X . L o u14a,14e , A. Lounis 66 , J. Love 6 , P. A. Love91 ,G . L u14a,14e ,M . L u80 ,
S. Lu128 ,Y . J . L u65 , H .J .L u b a t t i138 , C. Luci 75a,75b , F. L. Lucio Alves 14c , A. Lucotte 60 , F. Luehring 68 ,
I. Luise145 , O. Lukianchuk 66 , O. Lundberg 144 , B. Lund-Jensen 144 , N. A. Luongo 123 , M .S .L u t z151 ,
D. Lynn29 , H. Lyons 92, R. Lysak 131 ,E . L y t k e n98 , V . Lyubushkin38 , T. Lyubushkina 38 , M .M .L y u k o v a145 ,
H. Ma29 ,L .L .M a62b ,Y .M a121 , D. M. Mac Donell165 , G. Maccarrone53 , J. C. MacDonald100 , R. Madar40 ,
W. F. Mader50 , J. Maeda 84 , T. Maeno 29 , M. Maerker 50 , H. Maguire 139 ,A . M a i o130a,130b,130d ,K . M a j85a ,
O. Majersky48 ,S . M a j e w s k i123 , N. Makovec 66 , V . Maksimovic 15 , B. Malaescu 127 , Pa. Malecki 86 ,
V. P. M a l e ev37 , F. Malek 60 ,M . M a l i 93 , D. Malito 95,o , U. Mallik 80 , S. Maltezos 10, S. Malyukov 38,
J. Mamuzic13 , G. Mancini53 , G. Manco73a,73b , J. P. Mandalia94 , I. Mandi´c93 , L. Manhaes de Andrade Filho82a ,
I. M. Maniatis169 , J. Manjarres Ramos 102 , D. C. Mankad 169 , A. Mann 109 , B. Mansoulie 135 , S. Manzoni 36 ,
A. Marantis152 , G. Marchiori 5 , M. Marcisovsky 131 , C. Marcon 71a,71b , M. Marinescu 20 , M. Marjanovic 120 ,
E. J. Marshall91 , Z. Marshall 17a , S. Marti-Garcia 163 , T. A. Martin 167 , V .J .M a r t i n52 , B. Martin dit Latour 16 ,
L. Martinelli75a,75b , M. Martinez13,t , P. Martinez Agullo163 , V . I. Martinez Outschoorn103 , P. Martinez Suarez13 ,
S. Martin-Haugh134 , V . S. Martoiu27b , A. C. Martyniuk 96 , A. Marzin 36 , D. Mascione 78a,78b , L. Masetti 100 ,
T. Mashimo153 ,J . M a s i k101 , A. L. Maslennikov 37 , L. Massa 23b , P. Massarotti 72a,72b , P. Mastrandrea 74a,74b ,
A. Mastroberardino43a,43b , T. Masubuchi 153 , T. Mathisen 161 , J. Matousek 133 , N. Matsuzawa 153, J. Maurer 27b ,
B. Maˇcek93 , D. A. Maximov37 , R. Mazini148 , I. Maznas152 , M. Mazza107 , S. M. Mazza136 , E. Mazzeo71a,71b ,
C. Mc Ginn29 ,J . P . M c G o w a n 104 , S .P .M cK e e 106 , E. F. McDonald 105 , A. E. McDougall 114 ,
J. A. Mcfayden146 , R. P. McGovern 128 , G. Mchedlidze 149b , R. P. Mckenzie 33g , T. C. Mclachlan 48 ,
D. J. Mclaughlin96 , K. D. McLean 165 , S. J. McMahon 134 , P. C. McNamara 105 , C. M. Mcpartland 92 ,
R. A. McPherson165,w , S. Mehlhase 109 , A. Mehta 92 , D. Melini 150 , B. R. Mellado Garcia 33g , A .H .M e l o55 ,
F. Meloni48 , A. M. Mendes Jacques Da Costa 101 , H .Y .M e n g155 , L. Meng 91 , S. Menke 110 , M. Mentink 36 ,
E. Meoni43a,43b , C. Merlassino 126 , L. Merola 72a,72b , C. Meroni 71a ,G . M e r z 106, O. Meshkov 37 ,
J. Metcalfe6 ,A . S . M e t e6 , C. Meyer 68 , J-P. Meyer135 , R. P. Middleton134 , L. Mijovi´c52 , G. Mikenberg 169 ,
M. Mikestikova131 , M. Mikuž 93 , H. Mildner 100 , A. Milic 36 , C. D. Milke 44 , D. W. Miller39 , L. S. Miller 34 ,
123

===== PAGE 33 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 33 of 41 761
A. Milov169 , D .A .M i l s t e a d47a,47b,T . M i n 14c, A. A. Minaenko 37 , I. A. Minashvili 149b , L. Mince 59 ,
A. I. Mincer117 , B. Mindur 85a , M. Mineev 38 ,Y . M i n o 87 , L .M .M i r 13 , M. Miralles Lopez 163 ,
M. Mironova17a ,A . M i s h i m a153, M .C .M i s s i o113 , T. Mitani 168 , A. Mitra 167 , V . A. Mitsou163 ,O . M i u155 ,
P. S. Miyagawa94 , Y . Miyazaki 89, A. Mizukami 83 , T. Mkrtchyan 63a , M. Mlinarevic 96 , T. Mlinarevic 96 ,
M. Mlynarikova36 , S. Mobius 55 , K. Mochizuki 108 , P. Moder 48 , P. Mogg 109 , A. F. Mohammed 14a,14e ,
S. Mohapatra41 , G. Mokgatitswane 33g , L. Moleri 169 , B. Mondal 141 , S. Mondal 132 , G. Monig 146 ,
K. Mönig48 , E. Monnier102 , L. Monsonis Romero163, J. Montejo Berlingen13,83 , M. Montella119 , F. Monticelli90 ,
S. Monzani69a,69c , N. Morange66 , A. L. Moreira De Carvalho130a , M. Moreno Llácer163 , C. Moreno Martinez56 ,
P. Morettini57b , S. Morgenstern 36 ,M . M o r i i61 , M. Morinaga 153 ,A . K . M o r l e y36 , F. Morodei 75a,75b ,
L. Morvaj36 , P. Moschovakos36 , B. Moser36 , M. Mosidze149b, T. Moskalets54 , P. Moskvitina113 ,J .M o s s31,m ,
E. J. W. Moyse103 , O. Mtintsilana 33g , S. Muanza 102 , J. Mueller 129 , D. Muenstermann 91 , R. Müller 19 ,
G. A. Mullier161 , A. J. Mullin 32, J. J. Mullin 128, D. P. Mungo 155 , D. Munoz Perez 163 , F. J. Munoz Sanchez 101 ,
M. Murin101 ,W . J . M u r r a y167,134 , A. Murrone 71a,71b , J .M .M u s e120 , M. Muškinja 17a ,C . M w e w a29 ,
A. G. Myagkov37,a , A. J. Myers 8 , A .A .M y e r s 129, G. Myers 68 , M. Myska 132 , B. P. Nachman 17a ,
O. Nackenhorst49 ,A . N a g50 , K. Nagai 126 , K. Nagano 83 , J .L .N a g l e29,ae , E. Nagy 102 ,A . M . N a i r z36 ,
Y . Nakahama83 , K. Nakamura 83 , K. Nakkalil 5 , H. Nanjo 124 , R. Narayan 44 , E. A. Narayanan 112 ,
I. Naryshkin37 , M. Naseri 34 ,S . N a s r i159 ,C . N a s s24 , G. Navarro22a , J. Navarro-Gonzalez163 , R. Nayak 151 ,
A. Nayaz18 , P. Y . Nechaeva37 , F. Nechansky48 , L. Nedic 126 , T. J. Neep 20 ,A . N e g r i73a,73b ,M . N e g r i n i23b ,
C. Nellist114 ,C . N e l s o n 104 ,K . N e l s o n 106 , S. Nemecek 131 , M. Nessi 36,h , M. S. Neubauer 162 ,
F. Neuhaus100 , J. Neundorf 48 , R. Newhouse 164 , P. R. Newman 20 ,C . W . N g 129 , Y .W .Y .N g 48 ,
B. Ngair35e , H. D. N. Nguyen 108 , R. B. Nickerson 126 , R. Nicolaidou 135 , J. Nielsen 136 , M. Niemeyer 55 ,
J. Niermann55,36 , N. Nikiforou 36 , V . Nikolaenko37,a , I. Nikolic-Audit 127 , K. Nikolopoulos 20 , P. Nilsson 29 ,
I. Ninca48 , H. R. Nindhito 56 , G. Ninio 151 ,A . N i s a t i75a ,N . N i s h u2 , R. Nisius 110 , J.-E. Nitschke 50 ,
E. K. Nkadimeng33g , S. J. Noacco Rosende90 , T. Nobe153 ,D .L .N o e l32 , T. Nommensen147 , M. B. Norfolk139 ,
R. R. B. Norisam96 ,B . J . N o r m a n34 ,J . N o v a k 93 ,T . N o v a k 48 , L. Novotny 132 , R. Novotny 112 ,
L. Nozka122 , K. Ntekas 160 , N. M. J. Nunes De Moura Junior 82b ,E . N u r s e96, J. Ocariz 127 , A. Ochi 84 ,
I. Ochoa130a , S. Oerdek 161 , J. T. Offermann 39 , A. Ogrodnik 133 ,A . O h 101 ,C . C . O h m144 ,H . O i d e83 ,
R. Oishi153 , M .L .O j e d a48 , Y . Okazaki 87 , M. W. O’Keefe 92, Y . Okumura 153 , L. F. Oleiro Seabra 130a ,
S. A. Olivares Pino137d , D. Oliveira Damazio 29 , D. Oliveira Goncalves 82a ,J . L . O l i v e r160 , M .J .R .O l s s o n160 ,
A. Olszewski86 , Ö. O. Öncel 54 ,D . C . O ’ N e i l142 , A. P. O’Neill 19 , A. Onofre 130a,130e , P .U .E .O n y i s i11 ,
M. J. Oreglia39 , G. E. Orellana 90 , D. Orestano 77a,77b , N. Orlando 13 ,R . S . O r r 155 , V . O’Shea 59 ,
R. Ospanov62a , G. Otero y Garzon30 , H. Otono89 ,P .S .O t t63a , G. J. Ottino17a , M. Ouchrif35d , J. Ouellette29 ,
F. Ould-Saada125 , M. Owen 59 , R. E. Owen 134 , K. Y . Oyulmaz 21a , V . E. Ozcan 21a , N. Ozturk 8 ,
S. Ozturk21d ,H .A .P a c e y32 , A. Pacheco Pages13 , C. Padilla Aranda13 , G. Padovano75a,75b , S. Pagan Griso17a ,
G. Palacino68 , A. Palazzo 70a,70b , S. Palestini 36 ,J . P a n172 ,T . P a n64a , D. K. Panchal 11 , C. E. Pandini 114 ,
J. G. Panduro Vazquez95 , H. Pang 14b , P. Pani 48 , G. Panizzo 69a,69c , L. Paolozzi 56 , C. Papadatos 108 ,
S. Parajuli44 , A. Paramonov6 , C. Paraskevopoulos10 , D. Paredes Hernandez64b ,T .H .P a r k155 ,M .A .P a r k e r32 ,
F. Parodi57a,57b , E .W .P a r r i s h115 ,V . A . P a r r i s h52 , J .A .P a r s o n s41 , U. Parzefall 54 , B. Pascual Dias 108 ,
L. Pascual Dominguez151 , F. Pasquali114 , E. Pasqualucci75a , S. Passaggio57b ,F .P a s t o r e95 , P. Pasuwan47a,47b ,
P. Patel86 , U. M. Patel 51 , J .R .P a t e r101 , T. Pauly 36 , J. Pearkes 143 , M. Pedersen 125 , R. Pedro 130a ,
S. V . Peleganchuk37 , O. Penc36 , E. A. Pender52, H. Peng62a , K. E. Penski109 , M. Penzin37 , B. S. Peralva82d,82d ,
A. P. Pereira Peixoto60 , L. Pereira Sanchez 47a,47b , D. V . Perepelitsa29,ae , E. Perez Codina 156a , M. Perganti 10 ,
L. Perini71a,71b,* , H. Pernegger36 , S. Perrella36 , A. Perrevoort113 , O. Perrin40 , K. Peters48 , R. F. Y . Peters101 ,
B. A. Petersen36 , T. C. Petersen 42 , E. Petit 102 , V . Petousis 132 , C. Petridou 152,e , A. Petrukhin 141 ,
M. Pettee17a , N. E. Pettersson 36 , A. Petukhov 37 , K. Petukhova 133 , A. Peyaud 135 , R. Pezoa 137f ,
L. Pezzotti36 , G. Pezzullo 172 , T. M. Pham 170 , T. Pham 105 , P. W. Phillips 134 , G. Piacquadio 145 ,
E. Pianori17a , F. Piazza 71a,71b , R. Piegaia 30 , D. Pietreanu 27b , A. D. Pilkington 101 , M. Pinamonti 69a,69c ,
J. L. Pinfold2 , B. C. Pinheiro Pereira 130a , A. E. Pinto Pinoargote 135 , C. Pitman Donaldson 96, D .A .P i z z i34 ,
L. Pizzimento76a,76b , A. Pizzini 114 , M.-A. Pleier 29 , V . Plesanovs54,V .P l e s k o t133 , E. Plotnikova38, G. Poddar 4 ,
R. Poettgen98 , L. Poggioli 127 , D. Pohl 24 , I. Pokharel 55 , S. Polacek 133 , G. Polesello 73a , A. Poley 142,156a ,
R. Polifka132 , A. Polini 23b , C. S. Pollard 167 , Z. B. Pollock 119 , V . Polychronakos29 , E. Pompa Pacchi 75a,75b ,
D. Ponomarenko113 , L. Pontecorvo 36 , S. Popa 27a , G. A. Popeneciu 27d , D. M. Portillo Quintero 156a ,
S. Pospisil132 , M. A. Postill 139 , P. Postolache 27c , K. Potamianos 167 , P. P. Potepa 85a , I .N .P o t r a p38 ,
123

===== PAGE 34 =====
761 Page 34 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
C. J. Potter32 , H. Potti 1 , T. Poulsen 48 , J. Poveda 163 , M. E. Pozo Astigarraga 36 , A. Prades Ibanez 163 ,
M. M. Prapa46 ,J . P r e t e l54 ,D . P r i c e101 ,M . P r i m a v e r a70a , M. A. Principe Martin 99 , R. Privara 122 ,
T. Procter59 ,M . L . P r o f ﬁ t t138 , N. Proklova 128 , K. Prokoﬁev 64c ,G . P r o t o76a,76b , S. Protopopescu 29 ,
J. Proudfoot6 , M. Przybycien85a , W. W. Przygoda85b , J. E. Puddefoot139 , D. Pudzha37 , D. Pyatiizbyantseva37 ,
J. Qian106 , D. Qichen 101 ,Y . Q i n101 ,T . Q i u52 , A. Quadt 55 , M. Queitsch-Maitland 101 , G. Quetant 56 ,
G. Rabanal Bolanos61 , D. Rafanoharana54 , F. Ragusa71a,71b , J. L. Rainbolt39 ,J .A .R a i n e56 , S. Rajagopalan29 ,
E. Ramakoti37 ,K . R a n 48,14e , N. P. Rapheeha 33g , H. Rasheed 27b , V . Raskina 127 , D .F .R a s s l o f f63a ,
S. Rave100 ,B . R a v i n a 55 , I. Ravinovich 169 , M. Raymond 36 , A .L .R e a d 125 , N. P. Readioff 139 ,
D. M. Rebuzzi73a,73b , G. Redlinger 29 , A. S. Reed 110 ,K . R e e v e s26 , J. A. Reidelsturz 171 , D. Reikher 151 ,
A. Rej141 , C. Rembser 36 , A. Renardi 48 , M. Renda 27b , M. B. Rendel 110, F. Renner 48 , A. G. Rennie 59 ,
S. Resconi71a , M. Ressegotti 57a,57b , E. D. Resseguie 17a , S. Rettie 36 , J. G. Reyes Rivera 107 , B. Reynolds 119,
E. Reynolds17a , M. Rezaei Estabragh 171 , O. L. Rezanova 37 , P. Reznicek 133 , N. Ribaric 91 , E. Ricci 78a,78b ,
R. Richter110 , S. Richter 47a,47b , E. Richter-Was85b , M. Ridel 127 , S. Ridouani 35d , P. Rieck117 , P. Riedler36 ,
M. Rijssenbeek145 , A. Rimoldi 73a,73b , M. Rimoldi 48 , L. Rinaldi 23a,23b ,T . T . R i n n29 , M. P. Rinnagel 109 ,
G. Ripellino161 ,I . R i u 13 , P. Rivadeneira 48 , J. C. Rivera Vergara 165 , F. Rizatdinova 121 , E. Rizvi 94 ,
C. Rizzi56 , B. A. Roberts 167 , B. R. Roberts 17a , S. H. Robertson 104,w , M. Robin 48 , D. Robinson 32 ,
C. M. Robles Gajardo137f, M. Robles Manzano 100 , A. Robson 59 , A. Rocchi 76a,76b , C. Roda 74a,74b ,
S. Rodriguez Bosca63a , Y . Rodriguez Garcia22a , A. Rodriguez Rodriguez 54 , A. M. Rodríguez Vera156b ,S . R o e36,
J. T. Roemer160 , A. R. Roepe-Gier 136 , J. Roggel 171 , O. Røhne 125 , R .A .R o j a s103 , C. P. A. Roland 68 ,
J. Roloff29 , A. Romaniouk37 , E. Romano73a,73b , M. Romano23b , A. C. Romero Hernandez162 , N. Rompotis92 ,
L. Roos127 , S. Rosati 75a , B. J. Rosser 39 , E. Rossi 126 , E. Rossi 72a,72b , L. P. Rossi 57b , L. Rossini 48 ,
R. Rosten119 , M. Rotaru 27b , B. Rottler 54 , C. Rougier 102 , D. Rousseau 66 , D. Rousso 32 ,A . R o y 162 ,
S. Roy-Garand155 , A. Rozanov 102 , Y . Rozen 150 , X. Ruan 33g , A. Rubio Jimenez 163 , A. J. Ruby 92 ,
V . H. Ruelas Rivera18 , T. A. Ruggeri1 , A. Ruggiero 126 , A. Ruiz-Martinez 163 , A. Rummler 36 ,Z . R u r i k o v a54 ,
N. A. Rusakovich38 , H. L. Russell 165 , G. Russo 75a,75b , J. P. Rutherfoord 7 , S. Rutherford Colmenares 32 ,
K. Rybacki91, M. Rybar 133 ,E . B . R y e 125 , A. Ryzhov 37 , J. A. Sabater Iglesias 56 , P. Sabatini 163 ,
L. Sabetta75a,75b , H.F-W. Sadrozinski 136 , F. Safai Tehrani 75a , B. Safarzadeh Samani 146 , M. Safdari 143 ,
S. Saha104 , M. Sahinsoy 110 , M. Saimpert 135 , M. Saito 153 , T. Saito 153 , D. Salamani 36 , A. Salnikov 143 ,
J. Salt163 , A. Salvador Salas 13 , D. Salvatore 43a,43b , F. Salvatore 146 , A. Salzburger 36 , D. Sammel 54 ,
D. Sampsonidis152,e , D. Sampsonidou 123 , J. Sánchez 163 , A. Sanchez Pineda 4 , V . Sanchez Sebastian 163 ,
H. Sandaker125 , C. O. Sander 48 , J. A. Sandesara 103 , M. Sandhoff 171 , C. Sandoval 22b , D. P. C. Sankey 134 ,
T. Sano87 , A. Sansoni 53 , L. Santi 75a,75b , C. Santoni 40 , H. Santos 130a,130b , S. N. Santpur 17a , A. Santra 169 ,
K. A. Saoucha139 , J. G. Saraiva130a,130d , J. Sardain 7 , O. Sasaki 83 , K. Sato 157 , C. Sauer 63b, F. Sauerburger54 ,
E. Sauvan4 ,P . S a v a r d155,ac , R. Sawada 153 , C. Sawyer 134 , L. Sawyer 97 , I. Sayago Galvan 163, C. Sbarra 23b ,
A. Sbrizzi23a,23b , T. Scanlon 96 , J. Schaarschmidt 138 , P. Schacht 110 , D. Schaefer 39 , U. Schäfer 100 ,
A. C. Schaffer66,44 , D. Schaile 109 , R. D. Schamberger145 , C. Scharf 18 , M. M. Schefer 19 , V . A. Schegelsky37 ,
D. Scheirich133 , F. Schenck 18 , M. Schernau 160 , C. Scheulen 55 , C. Schiavi 57a,57b , E. J. Schioppa 70a,70b ,
M. Schioppa43a,43b , B. Schlag 143 , K. E. Schleicher 54 , S. Schlenker 36 , J. Schmeing 171 , M. A. Schmidt 171 ,
K. Schmieden100 , C. Schmitt 100 , S. Schmitt 48 , L. Schoeffel 135 , A. Schoening 63b , P. G. Scholer 54 ,
E. Schopf126 , M. Schott 100 , J. Schovancova 36 , S. Schramm 56 , F. Schroeder 171 , H.-C. Schultz-Coulon 63a ,
M. Schumacher54 , B. A. Schumm136 , Ph. Schune135 , A. J. Schuy138 , H. R. Schwartz136 , A. Schwartzman143 ,
T. A. Schwarz106 , Ph. Schwemling 135 , R. Schwienhorst 107 , A. Sciandra 136 , G. Sciolla 26 , F. Scuri 74a ,
C. D. Sebastiani92 , K. Sedlaczek115 , P. Seema18 , S. C. Seidel112 , A. Seiden136 , B. D. Seidlitz41 , C. Seitz48 ,
J. M. Seixas82b , G. Sekhniaidze 72a , S. J. Sekula 44 , L. Selem 60 , N. Semprini-Cesari 23a,23b , D. Sengupta 56 ,
V . Senthilkumar163 , L. Serin 66 , L. Serkin 69a,69b , M. Sessa 76a,76b ,H . S e v e r i n i120 , F. Sforza 57a,57b ,
A. Sfyrla56 , E. Shabalina 55 , R. Shaheen 144 , J. D. Shahinian 128 , D. Shaked Renous 169 , L. Y . Shan 14a ,
M. Shapiro17a , A. Sharma 36 , A. S. Sharma 164 , P. Sharma 80 , S. Sharma 48 , P. B. Shatalov 37 , K. Shaw 146 ,
S. M. Shaw101 , A. Shcherbakova 37 , Q. Shen 62c,5 , P. Sherwood96 , L. Shi 96 , X. Shi 14a , C. O. Shimmin 172 ,
Y . Shimogama168 , J. D. Shinner 95 , I .P .J .S h i p s e y126 , S. Shirabe 56,h , M. Shiyakova 38 , J. Shlomi 169 ,
M. J. Shochet39 , J. Shojaii105 , D. R. Shope125 , S. Shrestha119,af ,E .M .S h r i f33g , M. J. Shroff165 , P. Sicho131 ,
A. M. Sickles162 , E. Sideras Haddad 33g , A. Sidoti 23b , F. Siegert 50 , Dj. Sijacki 15 ,R . S i k o r a85a , F. Sili 90 ,
J. M. Silva20 , M. V . Silva Oliveira 29 , S. B. Silverstein 47a , S. Simion 66, R. Simoniello 36 , E. L. Simpson 59 ,
H. Simpson146 , L. R. Simpson 106 , N .D .S i m p s o n98,S . S i m s e k21d , S. Sindhu 55 , P. Sinervo155 , S. Singh 155 ,
123

===== PAGE 35 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 35 of 41 761
S. Sinha48 , S. Sinha 101 , M. Sioli 23a,23b ,I . S i r a l36 , E. Sitnikova 48 , S.Yu. Sivoklokov 37,* , J. Sjölin 47a,47b ,
A. Skaf55 ,E . S k o r d a98 , P. Skubic 120 , M. Slawinska 86 , V . Smakhtin 169, B .H .S m a r t134 ,J . S m i e s k o36 ,
S.Yu. Smirnov37 ,Y . S m i r n o v37 ,L . N . S m i r n o v a37,a ,O . S m i r n o v a98 , A. C. Smith 41 , E .A .S m i t h39 ,
H. A. Smith126 , J. L. Smith92 , R. Smith143, M. Smizanska91 ,K .S m o l e k132 , A. A. Snesarev37 , S. R. Snider155 ,
H. L. Snoek114 , S. Snyder 29 , R. Sobie 165,w , A. Soffer 151 , C. A. Solans Sanchez 36 , E.Yu. Soldatov 37 ,
U. Soldevila163 , A. A. Solodkov 37 , S. Solomon 26 , A. Soloshenko 38 , K. Solovieva 54 , O. V . Solovyanov40 ,
V . Solovyev37 , P. Sommer 36 , A. Sonay 13 , W. Y . Song 156b , J. M. Sonneveld 114 , A. Sopczak 132 ,
A. L. Sopio96 , F. Sopkova 28b , V . Sothilingam 63a, S. Sottocornola 68 , R. Soualah 116b , Z. Soumaimi 35e ,
D. South48 , S. Spagnolo 70a,70b , M. Spalla 110 , D. Sperlich 54 , G. Spigo 36 , M. Spina 146 , S. Spinali 91 ,
D. P. Spiteri59 , M. Spousta 133 , E. J. Staats 34 , A. Stabile 71a,71b ,R . S t a m e n63a , M. Stamenkovic 114 ,
A. Stampekis20 , M. Standke 24 , E. Stanecka 86 , M. V . Stange 50 , B. Stanislaus 17a , M. M. Stanitzki 48 ,
M. Stankaityte126 , B. Stapf48 , E. A. Starchenko37 ,G .H .S t a r k136 ,J .S t a r k102 ,D .M .S t a r k o156b, P. Staroba131 ,
P. Starovoitov63a ,S . S t ä r z104 , R. Staszewski 86 , G. Stavropoulos 46 , J. Steentoft 161 , P. Steinberg 29 ,
B. Stelzer142,156a , H .J .S t e l z e r129 , O. Stelzer-Chilton 156a , H. Stenzel 58 , T. J. Stevenson146 ,G . A . S t e w a r t36 ,
J. R. Stewart121 , M. C. Stockton 36 , G. Stoicea 27b , M. Stolarski 130a , S. Stonjek 110 , A. Straessner 50 ,
J. Strandberg144 , S. Strandberg 47a,47b , M. Strauss 120 , T. Strebler 102 , P. Strizenec 28b , R. Ströhmer 166 ,
D. M. Strom123 ,L . R . S t r o m48 , R. Stroynowski 44 , A. Strubig 47a,47b , S. A. Stucci 29 , B. Stugu 16 ,
J. Stupak120 , N. A. Styles 48 ,D . S u143 ,S . S u62a ,W . S u62d ,X . S u62a,66 , K. Sugizaki 153 , V . V . Sulin37 ,
M. J. Sullivan92 , D .M .S .S u l t a n78a,78b , L. Sultanaliyeva 37 , S. Sultansoy 3b , T. Sumida 87 , S. Sun 106 ,
S. Sun170 , O. Sunneborn Gudnadottir 161 , M .R .S u t t o n146 ,M . S v a t o s131 , M. Swiatlowski 156a , T. Swirski166 ,
I. Sykora28a , M. Sykora 133 , T. Sykora 133 ,D . T a 100 , K. Tackmann 48,u ,A . T a f f a r d160 , R. Taﬁrout 156a ,
J. S. Tafoya Vargas66 , R. Takashima 88 , E. P. Takeva 52 , Y . Takubo 83 , M. Talby 102 , A. A. Talyshev 37 ,
K. C. Tam64b , N .M .T a m i r151, A. Tanaka 153 , J. Tanaka 153 , R. Tanaka 66 , M. Tanasini 57a,57b ,Z . T a o164 ,
S. Tapia Araya137f , S. Tapprogge 100 , A. Tarek Abouelfadl Mohamed 107 , S. Tarem 150 ,K . T a r i q 62b ,
G. Tarna102,27b , G. F. Tartarelli71a ,P . T a s133 ,M . T a s e v s k y131 , E. Tassi43a,43b ,A . C . T a t e162 , G. Tateno153 ,
Y . Tayalati35e,v , G. N. Taylor 105 , W. Taylor 156b , H. Teagle 92,A . S . T e e 170 , R. Teixeira De Lima 143 ,
P. Teixeira-Dias95 , J. J. Teoh 155 , K. Terashi 153 ,J . T e r r o n99 , S. Terzo 13 ,M . T e s t a53 , R. J. Teuscher 155,w ,
A. Thaler79 , O. Theiner 56 , N. Themistokleous 52 , T. Theveneaux-Pelzer102 , O. Thielmann 171 , D. W. Thomas95,
J. P. Thomas20 , E. A. Thompson 17a , P. D. Thompson 20 , E. Thomson 128 ,Y . T i a n55 , V . Tikhomirov 37,a ,
Yu.A. Tikhonov37 , S. Timoshenko37,D .T i m o s h y n133 ,E .X .L .T i n g1 , P. Tipton172 ,S .H .T l o u33g , A. Tnourji40 ,
K. Todome23a,23b , S. Todorova-Nova 133 , S. Todt 50,M . T o g a w a83 ,J . T o j o89 , S. Tokár 28a , K. Tokushuku 83 ,
O. Toldaiev68 , R. Tombs 32 , M. Tomoto 83,111 , L. Tompkins 143 , K. W. Topolnicki 85b , E. Torrence 123 ,
H. Torres102 , E. Torró Pastor 163 , M. Toscani 30 , C. Tosciri 39 ,M . T o s t11 , D. R. Tovey 139 , A. Traeet 16,
I. S. Trandaﬁr27b , T. Trefzger 166 , A. Tricoli 29 , I. M. Trigger 156a , S. Trincaz-Duvoid 127 , D. A. Trischuk 26 ,
B. Trocmé60 , C. Troncon 71a , L. Truong 33c , M. Trzebinski 86 , A. Trzupek 86 ,F . T s a i145 ,M . T s a i106 ,
A. Tsiamis152,e , P. V . Tsiareshka37, S. Tsigaridas 156a , A. Tsirigotis 152,s , V . Tsiskaridze155 , E. G. Tskhadadze 149a,
M. Tsopoulou152,e , Y . Tsujikawa87 , I. I. Tsukerman 37 , V . Tsulaia17a , S. Tsuno 83 ,O . T s u r150, K. Tsuri 118,
D. Tsybychev145 ,Y . T u 64b , A. Tudorache 27b , V . Tudorache 27b , A. N. Tuna 36 , S. Turchikhin 38 ,
I. Turk Cakir3a ,R .T u r r a71a , T. Turtuvshin38,x ,P .M .T u t s41 , S. Tzamarias 152,e , P. Tzanis10 ,E .T z o v a r a100 ,
K. Uchida153,F . U k e g a w a157 , P. A. Ulloa Poblete 137c,137b , E. N. Umaka 29 , G. Unal 36 , M. Unal 11 ,
A. Undrus29 , G. Unel160 , J. Urban28b , P. Urquijo105 ,G .U s a i8 ,R .U s h i o d a154 ,M .U s m a n108 ,Z .U y s a l21b ,
L. Vacavant102 , V . Vacek132 , B. Vachon104 ,K .O .H .V a d l a125 , T. Vafeiadis36 , A. Vaitkus96 , C. Valderanis109 ,
E. Valdes Santurio47a,47b , M. Valente 156a , S. Valentinetti 23a,23b , A. Valero 163 , E. Valiente Moreno 163 ,
A. Vallier102 , J. A. Valls Ferrer 163 , D. R. Van Arneman 114 , T. R. Van Daalen 138 , A. Van Der Graaf 49 ,
P. Van Gemmeren6 , M. Van Rijnbach 125,36 , S. Van Stroud 96 , I. Van Vulpen 114 , M. Vanadia 76a,76b ,
W. Vandelli36 , M. Vandenbroucke 135 , E. R. Vandewall 121 , D. Vannicola 151 , L. Vannoli 57a,57b ,
R. Vari75a , E. W. Varnes 7 , C. Varni 17a , T. Varol 148 , D. Varouchas 66 , L. Varriale 163 ,K . E . V a r v e l l147 ,
M. E. Vasile27b , L. Vaslin 40, G. A. Vasquez 165 , F. Vazeille 40 , T. Vazquez Schroeder 36 , J. Veatch 31 ,
V . Vecchio101 , M .J .V e e n 103 , I. Veliscek 126 , L. M. Veloce 155 , F. Veloso 130a,130c , S. Veneziano 75a ,
A. Ventura70a,70b , A. Verbytskyi 110 , M. Verducci 74a,74b , C. Vergis 24 , M. Verissimo De Araujo 82b ,
W. Verkerke114 , J. C. Vermeulen114 , C. Vernieri143 , P. J. Verschuuren95 , M. Vessella103 , M. C. Vetterli142,ac ,
A. Vgenopoulos152,e , N. Viaux Maira 137f ,T . V i c k e y139 , O .E .V i c k e yB o e r i u139 , G. H. A. Viehhauser 126 ,
L. Vigani63b , M. Villa 23a,23b , M. Villaplana Perez 163 , E. M. Villhauer 52, E. Vilucchi 53 , M. G. Vincter 34 ,
123

===== PAGE 36 =====
761 Page 36 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
G. S. Virdee20 , A. Vishwakarma52 , C. Vittori36 , I. Vivarelli146 , V . Vladimirov167, E. V oevodina110 , F. V ogel109 ,
P. V okac132 , J. V on Ahnen48 , E. V on Toerne24 , B. V ormwald36 , V . V orobel133 , K. V orobev37 ,M . V o s163 ,
K. V oss141 , J. H. V ossebeld 92 , M. V ozak 114 , L. V ozdecky 94 , N. Vranjes 15 , M. Vranjes Milosavljevic 15 ,
M. Vreeswijk114 , R. Vuillermet36 , O. Vujinovic100 , I. Vukotic39 , S. Wada157 , C. Wagner103, J. M. Wagner17a ,
W. Wagner171 , S. Wahdan 171 , H. Wahlberg 90 , R. Wakasa 157 , M. Wakida 111 , J. Walder 134 ,R . W a l k e r109 ,
W. Walkowiak141 ,A . W a l l128 , T. Wamorkar 6 , A. Z. Wang 170 , C. Wang 100 , C. Wang 62c , H. Wang 17a ,
J. Wang64a , R.-J. Wang100 , R. Wang61 , R. Wang6 , S. M. Wang148 , S. Wang62b , T. Wang62a ,W .T .W a n g80 ,
X. Wang14c , X. Wang 162 , X. Wang 62c , Y . Wang 62d , Y . Wang 14c , Z. Wang 106 , Z. Wang 51,62c,62d ,
Z. Wang106 , A. Warburton104 , R .J .W a r d20 , N. Warrack59 ,A . T . W a t s o n20 ,H . W a t s o n59 ,M . F . W a t s o n20 ,
G. Watts138 , B. M. Waugh 96 , C. Weber 29 , H. A. Weber 18 , M. S. Weber 19 , S. M. Weber 63a ,C . W e i62a,
Y. We i126 , A. R. Weidberg 126 , E .J .W e i k117 , J. Weingarten 49 , M. Weirich 100 ,C . W e i s e r54 , C .J .W e l l s48 ,
T. Wenaus29 , B. Wendland 49 , T. Wengler 36 , N. S. Wenke 110,N . W e r m e s24 , M. Wessels 63a , K. Whalen 123 ,
A. M. Wharton91 , A. S. White 61 , A. White 8 , M .J .W h i t e1 , D. Whiteson 160 , L. Wickremasinghe 124 ,
W. Wiedenmann170 ,C . W i e l 50 , M. Wielers 134 , C. Wiglesworth 42 , D .J .W i l b e r n120, H. G. Wilkens 36 ,
D. M. Williams41 , H. H. Williams 128, S. Williams 32 , S. Willocq 103 , B .J .W i l s o n101 , P. J. Windischhofer 39 ,
F. I. Winkel30 , F. Winklmeier123 ,B .T .W i n t e r54 ,J .K .W i n t e r101 , M. Wittgen143, M. Wobisch97 ,Z .W o l f f s114 ,
R. Wölker126 , J. Wollrath 160, M .W .W o l t e r86 , H. Wolters 130a,130c , A. F. Wongel 48 , S .D .W o r m 48 ,
B. K. Wosiek86 , K .W .W o ´zniak86 , S. Wozniewski 55 , K. Wraight 59 ,C . W u 20 ,J . W u 14a,14e ,M . W u 64a ,
M. Wu113 ,S .L .W u170 ,X .W u56 ,Y .W u62a ,Z .W u135 , J. Wuerzinger110 , T. R. Wyatt101 , B. M. Wynne52 ,
S. Xella42 ,L .X i a14c ,M .X i a14b, J. Xiang64c ,X .X i a o106 ,M .X i e62a ,X .X i e62a ,S .X i n14a,14e , J. Xiong17a ,
D. Xu14a ,H . X u 62a ,L . X u 62a ,R . X u 128 ,T . X u 106 ,Y . X u14b ,Z . X u 52 ,Z . X u 14a , B. Yabsley 147 ,
S. Yacoob33a , N. Yamaguchi 89 , Y . Yamaguchi 154 , E. Yamashita 153 , H. Yamauchi 157 , T. Yamazaki 17a ,
Y . Yamazaki84 ,J . Y a n62c,S . Y a n126 ,Z . Y a n25 , H .J .Y a n g62c,62d , H. T. Yang62a , S. Yang 62a , T. Yang64c ,
X. Yang62a , X. Yang 14a , Y . Yang 44 , Y . Yang 62a, Z. Yang 62a ,W - M . Y a o17a ,Y . C . Y a p48 ,H . Y e 14c ,
H. Ye55 ,J .Y e44 ,S .Y e29 ,X .Y e62a ,Y .Y e h96 , I. Yeletskikh38 ,B .K .Y e o17a ,M .R .Y e x l e y96 ,P .Y i n41 ,
K. Yorita168 , S. Younas 27b , C. J. S. Young 54 , C. Young 143 ,Y . Y u 62a , M. Yuan 106 , R. Yuan 62b,k ,
L. Yue96 , M. Zaazoua 62a , B. Zabinski 86 ,E . Z a i d52, T. Zakareishvili 149b , N. Zakharchuk 34 , S. Zambito 56 ,
J. A. Zamora Saa137d,137b , J. Zang153 , D. Zanzi54 , O. Zaplatilek132 , C. Zeitnitz171 , H. Zeng14a , J. C. Zeng162 ,
D. T. Zenger Jr26 , O. Zenin 37 , T. Ženiš 28a , S. Zenz 94 , S. Zerradi 35a ,D . Z e r w a s66 , M. Zhai 14a,14e ,
B. Zhang14c , D. F. Zhang 139 , J. Zhang 62b , J. Zhang 6 , K. Zhang 14a,14e , L. Zhang 14c , P. Zhang 14a,14e,
R. Zhang170 , S. Zhang106 , T. Zhang153 , X. Zhang62c , X. Zhang62b , Y . Zhang62c,5 , Y . Zhang96 , Z. Zhang17a ,
Z. Zhang66 , H. Zhao138 , P. Zhao51 , T. Zhao62b , Y . Zhao136 , Z. Zhao62a , A. Zhemchugov38 , K. Zheng162 ,
X. Zheng62a , Z. Zheng 143 , D. Zhong 162 , B. Zhou 106, H. Zhou 7 , N. Zhou 62c , Y . Zhou 7,C . G . Z h u62b ,
J. Zhu106 ,Y .Z h u62c ,Y .Z h u62a , X. Zhuang14a , K. Zhukov37 , V . Zhulanov37 ,N .I .Z i m i n e38 , J. Zinsser63b ,
M. Ziolkowski141 ,L . Ž i v k o v i ´c15 , A. Zoccoli 23a,23b , K. Zoch 56 , T. G. Zorbas 139 ,O . Z o r m p a46 ,W . Z o u41 ,
L. Zwalinski36
1 Department of Physics, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia
2 Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
3 (a)Department of Physics, Ankara University, Ankara, Türkiye;(b)Division of Physics, TOBB University of Economics
and Technology, Ankara, Türkiye
4 LAPP, Univ. Savoie Mont Blanc, CNRS/IN2P3, Annecy, France
5 APC, Université Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
6 High Energy Physics Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL, USA
7 Department of Physics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
8 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, TX, USA
9 Physics Department, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece
10 Physics Department, National Technical University of Athens, Zografou, Greece
11 Department of Physics, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA
12 Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
13 Institut de Física d’Altes Energies (IFAE), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Barcelona, Spain
14 (a)Institute of High Energy Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; (b)Physics Department, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China;(c)Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China;(d)School of Science,
123

===== PAGE 37 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 37 of 41 761
Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen, China;(e)University of Chinese Academy of Science (UCAS),
Beijing, China
15 Institute of Physics, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia
16 Department for Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
17 (a)Physics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA;(b)University of California, Berkeley,
CA, USA
18 Institut für Physik, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany
19 Albert Einstein Center for Fundamental Physics and Laboratory for High Energy Physics, University of Bern, Bern,
Switzerland
20 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK
21 (a)Department of Physics, Bogazici University, Istanbul, Türkiye;(b)Department of Physics Engineering, Gaziantep
University, Gaziantep, Türkiye;(c)Department of Physics, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Türkiye;(d)Istinye University,
Sariyer, Istanbul, Türkiye
22 (a)Facultad de Ciencias y Centro de Investigaciónes, Universidad Antonio Nariño, Bogotá, Colombia;(b)Departamento
de Física, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia;(c)Pontiﬁcia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá, Colombia
23 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia A. Righi, Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Bologna,
Bologna, Italy
24 Physikalisches Institut, Universität Bonn, Bonn, Germany
25 Department of Physics, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA
26 Department of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, USA
27 (a)Transilvania University of Brasov, Brasov, Romania;(b)Horia Hulubei National Institute of Physics and Nuclear
Engineering, Bucharest, Romania; (c)Department of Physics, Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi, Iasi,
Romania; (d)Physics Department, National Institute for Research and Development of Isotopic and Molecular
Technologies, Cluj-Napoca, Romania;(e)University Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania;(f)West University in
Timisoara, Timisoara, Romania;(g)Faculty of Physics, University of Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania
28 (a)Faculty of Mathematics, Physics and Informatics, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovak Republic;(b)Department of
Subnuclear Physics, Institute of Experimental Physics of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Kosice, Slovak Republic
29 Physics Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY, USA
30 Departamento de Física, y CONICET, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Instituto de Física de Buenos Aires
(IFIBA), Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina
31 California State University, Northridge, CA, USA
32 Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK
33 (a)Department of Physics, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa;(b)iThemba Labs, Western Cape, South
Africa; (c)Department of Mechanical Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg,
South Africa; (d)National Institute of Physics, University of the Philippines, Diliman, Philippines;(e)Department of
Physics, University of South Africa, Pretoria, South Africa;(f)University of Zululand, KwaDlangezwa,
South Africa; (g)School of Physics, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa
34 Department of Physics, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada
35 (a)Faculté des Sciences Ain Chock, Réseau Universitaire de Physique des Hautes Energies, Université Hassan II,
Casablanca, Morocco; (b)Faculté des Sciences, Université Ibn-Tofail, Kénitra, Morocco;(c)Faculté des Sciences
Semlalia, Université Cadi Ayyad, LPHEA-Marrakech, Morocco;(d)LPMR, Faculté des Sciences, Université Mohamed
Premier, Oujda, Morocco; (e)Faculté des sciences, Université Mohammed V, Rabat, Morocco;(f)Institute of Applied
Physics, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, Ben Guerir, Morocco
36 CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
37 Afﬁliated with an institute covered by a cooperation agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
38 Afﬁliated with an international laboratory covered by a cooperation agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
39 Enrico Fermi Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA
40 LPC, Université Clermont Auvergne, CNRS/IN2P3, Clermont-Ferrand, France
41 Nevis Laboratory, Columbia University, Irvington, NY, USA
42 Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
43 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università della Calabria, Rende, Italy;(b)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Cosenza, Laboratori
Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
44 Physics Department, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, USA
123

===== PAGE 38 =====
761 Page 38 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
45 Physics Department, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, TX, USA
46 National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research “Demokritos”, Agia Paraskevi, Greece
47 (a)Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden;(b)Oskar Klein Centre, Stockholm, Sweden
48 Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg and Zeuthen, Germany
49 Fakultät Physik , Technische Universität Dortmund, Dortmund, Germany
50 Institut für Kern- und Teilchenphysik, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany
51 Department of Physics, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA
52 SUPA-School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK
53 INFN e Laboratori Nazionali di Frascati, Frascati, Italy
54 Physikalisches Institut, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany
55 II. Physikalisches Institut, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
56 Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland
57 (a)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Genova, Genoa, Italy;(b)INFN Sezione di Genova, Genoa, Italy
58 II. Physikalisches Institut, Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen, Giessen, Germany
59 SUPA - School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK
60 LPSC, Université Grenoble Alpes, CNRS/IN2P3, Grenoble INP, Grenoble, France
61 Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA
62 (a)Department of Modern Physics and State Key Laboratory of Particle Detection and Electronics, University of Science
and Technology of China, Hefei, China;(b)Institute of Frontier and Interdisciplinary Science and Key Laboratory of
Particle Physics and Particle Irradiation (MOE), Shandong University, Qingdao, China;(c)School of Physics and
Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Key Laboratory for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology (MOE), SKLPPC,
Shanghai, China; (d)Tsung-Dao Lee Institute, Shanghai, China
63 (a)Kirchhoff-Institut für Physik, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany;(b)Physikalisches Institut,
Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany
64 (a)Department of Physics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, China;(b)Department of Physics,
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China;(c)Department of Physics and Institute for Advanced Study, Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China
65 Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
66 IJCLab, Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS/IN2P3, 91405 Orsay, France
67 Centro Nacional de Microelectrónica (IMB-CNM-CSIC), Barcelona, Spain
68 Department of Physics, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA
69 (a)INFN Gruppo Collegato di Udine, Sezione di Trieste, Udine, Italy;(b)ICTP, Trieste, Italy;(c)Dipartimento Politecnico
di Ingegneria e Architettura, Università di Udine, Udine, Italy
70 (a)INFN Sezione di Lecce, Lecce, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università del Salento, Lecce, Italy
71 (a)INFN Sezione di Milano, Milan, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Milano, Milan, Italy
72 (a)INFN Sezione di Napoli, Naples, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Napoli, Naples, Italy
73 (a)INFN Sezione di Pavia, Pavia, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Pavia, Pavia, Italy
74 (a)INFN Sezione di Pisa, Pisa, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica E. Fermi, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy
75 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma, Rome, Italy; (b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy
76 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma Tor Vergata, Rome,
Italy
77 (a)INFN Sezione di Roma Tre, Rome, Italy;(b)Dipartimento di Matematica e Fisica, Università Roma Tre, Rome, Italy
78 (a)INFN-TIFPA, Povo, Italy;(b)Università degli Studi di Trento, Trento, Italy
79 Department of Astro and Particle Physics, Universität Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria
80 University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA
81 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, IA, USA
82 (a)Departamento de Engenharia Elétrica, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora (UFJF), Juiz de Fora,
Brazil; (b)Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro COPPE/EE/IF, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;(c)Instituto de Física,
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil;(d)Rio de Janeiro State University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
83 KEK, High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Japan
84 Graduate School of Science, Kobe University, Kobe, Japan
85 (a)Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, AGH University of Science and Technology, Krakow,
Poland; (b)Marian Smoluchowski Institute of Physics, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland
123

===== PAGE 39 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 39 of 41 761
86 Institute of Nuclear Physics Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland
87 Faculty of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan
88 Kyoto University of Education, Kyoto, Japan
89 Research Center for Advanced Particle Physics and Department of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan
90 Instituto de Física La Plata, Universidad Nacional de La Plata and CONICET, La Plata, Argentina
91 Physics Department, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK
92 Oliver Lodge Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK
93 Department of Experimental Particle Physics, Jožef Stefan Institute and Department of Physics, University of Ljubljana,
Ljubljana, Slovenia
94 School of Physics and Astronomy, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK
95 Department of Physics, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK
96 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, UK
97 Louisiana Tech University, Ruston, LA, USA
98 Fysiska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Lund, Sweden
99 Departamento de Física Teorica C-15 and CIAFF, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
100 Institut für Physik, Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany
101 School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK
102 CPPM, Aix-Marseille Université, CNRS/IN2P3, Marseille, France
103 Department of Physics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA
104 Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada
105 School of Physics, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
106 Department of Physics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA
107 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
108 Group of Particle Physics, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada
109 Fakultät für Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Munich, Germany
110 Max-Planck-Institut für Physik (Werner-Heisenberg-Institut), Munich, Germany
111 Graduate School of Science and Kobayashi-Maskawa Institute, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
112 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA
113 Institute for Mathematics, Astrophysics and Particle Physics, Radboud University/Nikhef, Nijmegen, The Netherlands
114 Nikhef National Institute for Subatomic Physics and University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
115 Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA
116 (a)New York University Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates;(b)University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab
Emirates
117 Department of Physics, New York University, New York, NY, USA
118 Ochanomizu University, Otsuka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan
119 Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA
120 Homer L. Dodge Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA
121 Department of Physics, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, OK, USA
122 Palacký University, Joint Laboratory of Optics, Olomouc, Czech Republic
123 Institute for Fundamental Science, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR, USA
124 Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan
125 Department of Physics, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway
126 Department of Physics, Oxford University, Oxford, UK
127 LPNHE, Sorbonne Université, Université Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
128 Department of Physics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA
129 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
130 (a)Laboratório de Instrumentação e Física Experimental de Partículas-LIP, Lisbon, Portugal; (b)Departamento de Física,
Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(c)Departamento de Física, Universidade de Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; (d)Centro de Física Nuclear da Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal;(e)Departamento de Física,
Universidade do Minho, Braga, Portugal;(f)Departamento de Física Teórica y del Cosmos, Universidad de Granada,
Granada, Spain; (g)Departamento de Física, Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal
131 Institute of Physics of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic
132 Czech Technical University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic
123

===== PAGE 40 =====
761 Page 40 of 41 Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761
133 Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic
134 Particle Physics Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, UK
135 IRFU, CEA, Université Paris-Saclay, Gif-sur-Yvette, France
136 Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics, University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA, USA
137 (a)Departamento de Física, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile;(b)Millennium Institute for
Subatomic Physics at High Energy Frontier (SAPHIR), Santiago, Chile; (c)Instituto de Investigación Multidisciplinario
en Ciencia y Tecnología y Departamento de Física, Universidad de La Serena, La Serena, Chile;(d)Department of
Physics, Universidad Andres Bello, Santiago, Chile;(e)Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica,
Chile; (f)Departamento de Física, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María, Valparaíso, Chile
138 Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, W A, USA
139 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Shefﬁeld, Shefﬁeld, UK
140 Department of Physics, Shinshu University, Nagano, Japan
141 Department Physik, Universität Siegen, Siegen, Germany
142 Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada
143 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Stanford, CA, USA
144 Department of Physics, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden
145 Departments of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA
146 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK
147 School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
148 Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan
149 (a)E. Andronikashvili Institute of Physics, Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(b)High Energy
Physics Institute, Tbilisi State University, Tbilisi, Georgia;(c)University of Georgia, Tbilisi, Georgia
150 Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel
151 Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel
152 Department of Physics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece
153 International Center for Elementary Particle Physics and Department of Physics, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan
154 Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan
155 Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada
156 (a)TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Canada;(b)Department of Physics and Astronomy, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada
157 Division of Physics and Tomonaga Center for the History of the Universe, Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences,
University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Japan
158 Department of Physics and Astronomy, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA
159 United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates
160 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA
161 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Uppsala, Uppsala, Sweden
162 Department of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA
163 Instituto de Física Corpuscular (IFIC), Centro Mixto Universidad de Valencia-CSIC, Valencia, Spain
164 Department of Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada
165 Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada
166 Fakultät für Physik und Astronomie, Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany
167 Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
168 Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan
169 Department of Particle Physics and Astrophysics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel
170 Department of Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA
171 Fakultät für Mathematik und Naturwissenschaften, Fachgruppe Physik, Bergische Universität Wuppertal, Wuppertal,
Germany
172 Department of Physics, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA
a Also at Also Afﬁliated with an institute covered by a cooperation agreement with CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
b Also at APC, Université Paris Cité, CNRS/IN2P3, Paris, France
c Also at Borough of Manhattan Community College, City University of New York, New York, NY, USA
d Also at Center for High Energy Physics, Peking University, Beijing, China
e Also at Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation (CIRI-AUTH), Thessaloniki , Greece
123

===== PAGE 41 =====
Eur. Phys. J. C (2023) 83 :761 Page 41 of 41 761
f Also at Centro Studi e Ricerche Enrico Fermi, Rome, Italy
g Also at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
h Also at Département de Physique Nucléaire et Corpusculaire, Université de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland
i Also at Departament de Fisica de la Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain
j Also at Department of Financial and Management Engineering, University of the Aegean, Chios, Greece
k Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA
l Also at Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada
m Also at Department of Physics, California State University, Sacramento, USA
n Also at Department of Physics, King’s College London, London, UK
o Also at Department of Physics, Royal Holloway University of London, Egham, UK
p Also at Department of Physics, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland
q Also at Department of Physics, University of Thessaly, Thessaly, Greece
r Also at Department of Physics, Westmont College, Santa Barbara, USA
s Also at Hellenic Open University, Patras, Greece
t Also at Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avancats, ICREA, Barcelona, Spain
u Also at Institut für Experimentalphysik, Universität Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany
v Also at Institute of Applied Physics, Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, Ben Guerir, Morocco
w Also at Institute of Particle Physics (IPP), Toronto, Canada
x Also at Institute of Physics and Technology, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
y Also at Institute of Physics, Azerbaijan Academy of Sciences, Baku, Azerbaijan
z Also at Institute of Theoretical Physics, Ilia State University, Tbilisi, Georgia
aa Also at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, USA
ab Also at The Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter (CICQM), Beijing, China
ac Also at TRIUMF, Vancouver, BC, Canada
ad Also at Università di Napoli Parthenope, Naples, Italy
ae Also at Department of Physics, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA
af Also at Washington College, Chestertown, MD, USA
ag Also at Physics Department, An-Najah National University, Nablus, Palestine
∗ Deceased
123